In the Spring of 1997, I was called by a group of ministers that asked me to speak at a conference in Evergreen, Colorado, which is just west of Denver.  When you live in Dallas and someone calls you and offers to pay for your trip to Colorado in July, not a lot of prayer needs to go into that.  You just kind of go, “Sure...yeah...I’m there...let me pray.  Okay, I’ll go.”  So that’s what I did, I flew into Denver, met some friends who live there and we went out to eat at a real nice pizza joint.  I know that sounds like an oxymoron, but it’s not.  We sat down and ate some great pizza, drank and laughed and just enjoyed ourselves.  We caught up on all the good, all the bad, all that we loved, all that we were frustrated with, all that God is doing and all that we wish He would do.  It was just a great night.  I left and went back to my hotel.  I had traveled all day, so I was just whipped.  I went to bed that night, woke up the next morning and something was just wrong. Something was wrong in my intestines, something was wrong in my stomach.  I got in my rental car and drove out to Evergreen, got to Singing River Ranch, which is where the conference was.  They call it that because right down the middle of those grounds is this river.  So no matter where you’re staying, it’s you can hear the river.  They have a hotel on this ranch, so they check me into my room.  I’m not in that room twenty minutes before I get the full on gift of food poisoning.  And so I am laying on the bathroom floor within the first hour asking God to kill me.  Has anybody else been there?  This isn’t, “I just need a Tums.”  This is, “Someone please kill me.”  And so, that’s where I was.  The funny thing is, when you’re sick like that, all of a sudden everyone’s a doctor.  Everyone is all of a sudden very concerned with my fluids, and everybody’s bringing me Gatorade and water and giving me fluids.  And my body keeps giving them back.  So they’re giving me Gatorade, and the body’s giving it right back in a variety of ways.  That’s kind of what I’m dealing with.  And for nearly twenty hours, that is my lot.  It’s them trying to keep me hydrated and my body fighting against that. 

 

And finally Dr. John Colquitt comes out of nowhere right before my death and gets me some medicine.  So I get the medicine, and with three hours before I’m supposed to stand on the stage and speak, I finally quit throwing up and other various activities.  So they enter the room and go, “What do you think?  We’ve got a guy who can give his testimony tonight.”  And in a moment of full-blown pride I’m like, “No, God needs me.”  So I’m like, “No, I’ll preach, but here’s the thing.  I can’t stand up for more than fifteen minutes without blacking out.  So if we could get a chair I could sit on, that would be great.”  So they got me a chair.  And I walk in before anybody else is in the room, and I just sit stage right on the floor.  I’m not on the stage, I don’t want to talk to anybody, I just kind of find a little nook and I just try to hide in it.  I sit there and I’m just praying and asking God for strength and wisdom and to really bless what we’re trying to do.  And in walks the men and women who are a part of this deal.  This beautiful blond girl walks up on the front row, and she’s sitting with her friends and kind of looking over at me.  So I’m going, “Oh, I’ve got some vomit on me.  Can they smell me?”  I’m not going, “Yeah, she’s looking at me.”  I’m kind of going, “What’s wrong?”  She walks over, bends down and goes, “You look pale.”  And I was like, “Yeah, I’ve been...”  She interrupts, “Yeah, you look awful.  Are you okay?”  And that was the first sentence Lauren Walker, who would become Lauren Chandler, ever said to me.   And that’s how our relationship started, vomit and diarrhea.

 

This Summer, Lauren and I will have known each other for eight years, we will have been married six.  And it has been awesome, and it has been difficult.  I’m a studier.  So when I started dating Lauren, I got goofy.  I had never been goofy before, not goofy for a girl.  I was always just an sports guy.  After I got saved, romance was just some secondary deal for me.  I don’t know why, but it just kind of left the chart for me for a while.  And then all of a sudden I meet Lauren and I’m enjoying romantic comedies.  That was one of the telltale signs that something was going on in me.  Because I wasn’t mocking them anymore; I found myself going, “Let’s go see the new Jennifer Aniston movie.”  That’s who I knew something was turning.  So I immediately begin trying to study, because I’m going, “Okay, this has got to be it.  Everyone’s talking about ‘the one,’ so maybe this is my one.  Either this is the one or this is the one that lights me up, jacks me up and makes me dysfunctional for the rest of my life.” 

 

And so I began to study all that God says about husbandry.  I got my Bible and looked up every text I could on what God expected of me and what He asks of me as a man.  I began to study it and began to try to see what God is asking of me.  I had never really studied it before, but I learned that God asks of me to protect, to provide, to lead my home, to find out what my wife’s passions are and help bring those things about, to identify the stress of the world that gets placed on her and try to remove it from her and place upon myself.  I have been called by God to wash her in the water of the Word.  And that is God’s illustration of how a man leads his home.  A man doesn’t lead his home by going, “This is what we’re doing, woman.”  And if it works that way for you, it’s not working.  You’re crushing your wife.  You’re crushing a spirit that was entrusted to you.  Now He says that we should wash her in the water of the Word.  That sounds gentle and slow, doesn’t it?  It’s gentle, and it’s slow.  And the hard part is God’s asked me to do all of that regardless of her response to it.  That’s the part that stinks.  Because it works really well if it’s a chess game.  “I do this, you move here.  I do this, you do that.  I do this, you respond this way...”  But sometimes it feels like, “I do this...I do this...I do this......Well I’m not playing then!”  That’s more how it is.  But God says, “Lead your home.  Wash her in the water of the Word.  Walk with her.  Love her.”  Do you want to hear something peculiar?  Nowhere in the Bible does God command a wife to love her husband, nowhere.  In not one place in Scripture is a woman commanded to love her husband.  But a husband is commanded to love his wife.  A woman is commanded to respect her husband, but a husband is commanded to love.  Do you know what love is?  Because that’s where we get confused.  Love is not just some googly feeling; it is the idea that “You are more valuable than me.”  That’s what love is.  So here’s my call: to love, to protect, to provide.

 

A good friend of mine says this all the time.  He’s wrong, but he says this.  It’s good, although it’s not theologically correct.  He says that to any married man that stands before God, God wills start with this, “Let Me see your wife.”  Biblically, I am responsible for the protection, provision and spiritual well being of my wife.  It’s hard, and it’s expensive.  I mean, who knew hair could cost that much.  It is time consuming.  What do I mean by that?  I love basketball and I love to wake board.  Those two things make me very, very happy.  I love my crew of guys.  I love hanging out with them.  But if I’m not too careful, I’ll be writing checks out of an account that I don’t want funds coming out of.  I’ve never understood guys that would take a vow before God to care and meet the needs of a woman and then over and over again increase her stress by playing with boys.  So it’s costly.  It’s costly because I want to play sometimes and I don’t get to.  Now that might not sound romantic, but it’s the reality.  When all is said and done, she’s my responsibility.

 

So Lauren has wanted to have kids since she was four years old.  We got married on a Saturday, and on Sunday had the first talk.  “When are we going to have kids?”  “When you quit calling yourself Lauren Walker and learn that your last name is Chandler.  I mean, we’re a day in and you don’t even know what your name is yet.”  And I was nervous about having kids.  I was like, “Okay, I’m going to need a couple years, because I’m going to have to study before we have this kid thing.  I’m going to need to know what’s expected of me, how this thing works.  I’m going to need to find every book on child rearing out there and break it all down.  So I’m going to need time.”  So finally a friend of mine said, “What mystical thing is going to happen where you wake up one day and finally you’re ready?”  If you ever want to get me, question are the way.  Because you don’t even have to answer them.  Just ask them and walk away and I’m like, “Hmm.”  So he says that to me, and I’m just like, “I don’t know.  I’m just afraid.”  So I told Lauren, “Hey, let’s try this thing.”  And we went to the doctor, and the doctor’s like, “Okay get off the birth control and anywhere from three to six months later, we can start looking for you guys to get pregnant.”  Eight days later, we were pregnant with Audrey.  So here I had this schedule of study time and all of that, and it gets just shot to kingdom come.  So I began to dig into the word and see what it is to be a father.

 

So Audrey was born about two and a half years ago.  Her little two year old friends call her Audie, so we’ve just started calling her Audie.  Well I do; that infuriates her mom.  I don’t know that anyone can understand this who’s not the father of a daughter.  I don’t know that anyone can understand this, but when she was born, something spun in me.  So we’re in the room, and it’s a tough day for a husband and wife when a baby is born.  The wife is in a lot of pain, and the husband is confused out of his mind.  Normally we’re supposed to touch and be gentle, but that can get you in a lot of trouble in that room.  I’m there trying to be sweet to Lauren, rubbing my fingers through her hair, and she finally grabs my wrist and goes, “Don’t touch me when I’m having a contraction.”  Could I have read that somewhere?  Could I have been taught that?  So it’s a minefield in there.  Good luck.  A lot of people like that to be a private moment, but we had so many people in the room.  Literally I’m going, “Who’s that guy?  Is he a cousin of yours?”  So the door is closed, the window is closed, no one comes through the door or window, but all of a sudden there’s another person in the room.  So they wrap her in this little cloth and put her on this little heated thing and start wiping her off.  From that second I knew I was in trouble.  I knew it.  That little girl to this day owns me.  She just can work me.

 

So I studied it.  I didn’t have time to read all the child rearing books, but I sure got into the Word.  “Do not exasperate to anger.”  “They are a gift from God.”  I have been charged to commend the works of God to her.  That means that her understanding of our great God and king come directly from me.  That means that it will be from the words of my mouth that she believes that God is a cosmic policeman waiting to punish her or that He is the Author of pink and candy and the boat and all that is good.  I have been called by God to protect her, to make her feel safe.  I have been called to court her.  So already we date.  Saturday morning is donuts and orange juice.  Sometimes I even get her a little flower.   And as she grows older, we will date often, at least once a year doing it big, where she gets a new outfit and accessories.  Because she’s two years old, and she already knows accessories.  If someone would ever teach that men and women are not intrinsically different, they are childless.  Because my daughter has wanted that purse with those shoes since she could point and grunt.  She will get accessories and we will do a little pre-dinner, dinner, whatever she wants.  If she likes the arts, we’ll do the arts.  If she likes sports, we will go to the game.  We will do dessert afterwards.  And I’ll tell you why.  Because the responsibility to teach her the difference between men and boys falls on me.  And that has nothing to do with age.  And so I will woo, I will kiss her face, I will rave about her beauty and I will open the door and she will have flowers and poems and all that I can think up to show her.  So when the punk sixteen year old shows up, she knows the game.  “I got you these flowers.”  “Cool, I get flowers all the time.”  And by the way, carnations are a funeral flower.  Don’t send those to your girl.  I learned that lesson.  Johnny did a good job on Lauren.  Because someone’s got to train her to spot the counterfeit.  Somebody has got to train her that some men are dogs, dogs who need a beating.  Some men have no respect for the development of the soul, the spirit or the emotions, but they’re like wolves that should be shot.  Some of them are in this room.  Who will protect my daughter from them?  The responsibility falls on me.  The responsibility falls on me, so she is wooed and loved. 

 

My father-in-law lives 1.5 miles away, and he loves my daughter.  He’s got a sailboat, and he’s always coming and getting her.  He has a Golden Retriever named Shelby, who Audrey is convinced is the greatest creature ever created by God.  It trumps me, him and everyone.  There’s nothing more lovely than Shelby.  So we’ve had the talk about who created Shelby, where Shelby came from.  We’ve had that talk because that’s what she sees as valuable, and so I want to connect that to Christ’s creation.  He created Shelby.  And so my father-in-law and Audrey talk, and she goes with him on the boat.  And if he doesn’t get to see her over a period of a couple of days, he’ll call me and go, “You’ve got to bring her by, or can I come over?”  I’ve had some friends go, “Does that bother you?  Does it bother you that he’s always coming over, he’s always grabbing your daughter, that your daughter loves him so much?”  And I’m like, “Listen, as many gentle, godly men that I can put around my daughter, the better.”  So that she’ll learn what a man is.  And she’ll just wear out those high school boys.  They’ll be sitting in the car, she’ll be waiting outside the passenger door.  “It’s unlocked.”  “Yeah, but I don’t open my own door.”  “Man, you’re high maintenance.  I’m out.”  I’ll be like, “See ya!  Bye, you little punk.”  Hopefully there are some of you who have a son who are begging for the soul of your son, teaching your sons what men are and what they are not.  I’m doing what God’s asked me to do, and that is trying to prepare my daughter for womanhood, healthy womanhood.  And I’m responsible for her, me.  When all is said and done, I am responsible for my wife and my daughter. 

 

And if we were honest, the majority of our lives look like this.  You’ve got spouses or you’re actively seeking one.  I mean, there are some of you who have overspiritualized it and gone, “No, I’ll just wait for Christ to bring him or her to me.”  Try that with your lunch today and see where that gets you.  But some of you are actively pursuing or already have it.  Some of you already have children.  And I don’t know that there would be anyone who would say out loud, “Naw, they’re not my responsibility.  My wife’s not my responsibility.  My kids aren’t my responsibility.  They’re somebody else’s.”  I mean, some of us think that and live like that, but nobody comes out and says it.  Most of us would say, “No, I know that’s my responsibility.”  And surely there needs to be more teaching on what that looks like and how that shakes itself down and how it works itself out in our daily lives. 

 

But that’s not the question I want us to address to day.  Here’s the question I want us to address.  It’s absolutely biblically clear and even socially clear that my wife and my daughter are my responsibility, to provide for, to protect, to feed.  They’re my responsibility.  That’s not the question.  Here’s the question.  Who else am I responsible for?  Because I’m responsible for Audrey, and I’m responsible for Lauren.  But who else?  My time, my money, my possessions, my energy, where else does it go?  Who else am I responsible for?  350,000 street kids in Bucharest under the age of 12 are almost all forced into sex trade.  Am I responsible for them?  All of them?  Or how about this.  We have a Compassion project in Guatemala.  We take trips to there, we adopt kids from that deal.  The part that’s so hard is this.  You’ll drive through slums that I can’t even begin to explain.  And you’ll go to this great building that we’ve built down there.  You’ll drive into it, and you’ll see all these kids that are well fed and well dressed.  And they will love you and latch onto you and kiss you.  Your sponsor kid will be looking for you; you’ll be looking for your sponsor kid.  And there’s this awesome, awesome moment and you’ll get caught up in it.  It’s beautiful and always full of tears.  I don’t care how hard you are here, when you finally just see that kid, it wrecks you.  They’ll love you, you’ll hug, you’ll talk and you’ll do all this.

 

But if you glance up, what you’ll notice is this.  The kids from that ghetto who have no one to sponsor them have built out of barrels and trash ladders that they will climb up and peek over the wall into those kids who are in there and the gifts that they’re getting and the love that they’re receiving.  And for two years, I have been trying to get rid of that thought in my mind.  For two years, I’ve been trying to get it out with sports and business and anything else I could to get that out of my head so I don’t have to come face to face with the reality that there are two year olds as lovely as my daughter who will not eat today.  And is that my responsibility?

 

Well that’s a horrible question and here’s why.  There’s this time in church where you start going to church but you don’t really think.  And then there comes this time where you actually start to think when you’re in church.  And I used to hate sermons that are like this one where you go, “The world’s a mess and everyone’s dying and no one has any money and people are starving to death.  Let’s pray.”  Then you just kind of leave feeling dirty and not knowing what to do.  I mean, what in the world do you do?  Maybe the question isn’t whose responsibility it is.  Maybe the question is: with the world in the state that it is, what can we do?  Can we really do anything about it?  It’s extensive.  I’m looking around.  Some of you go to Romania, some of you have been to Asia, some of you have gone to the Guatemala project with us.  We’ve been out there.  What do we do?  It’s massive.  What do we do with the massive amount of poverty and the poor and the beat up?  And is it our responsibility? 

 

Well, I want to show you what some college kids did.  I want to reiterate, college kids, intramural playing, Ramen noodle eating, 67¢ check writing college students.  Their top-end annual income may be $12,000, maybe.  College students, not businessmen, they don’t make six figures, college kids.  I want to show you what they did, and then we’ll talk James 1. 

 

[VIDEO]

 

“To be able to go and see a different culture, it’s going to be amazing.”

“When we were looking at the packets, we noticed Victor, and he just kind of caught our eye.”

“I’m just really stoked just to meet our sponsor and child.”

“I cannot begin to imagine the conditions in which he lives.”

“We are going to get an experience that some people are never going to have in their entire lives.”

 

“Walking through the valley was the most difficult moment on this trip.”

“The roads were just mud and dirt.”

“Their sewage ran in trenches, just straight through.”

“Trash everywhere.”

“It was heartbreaking because there’s children walking around barefoot in that mud and dirt.”

“There would be ten people living in each home.”

“It hurts me to see them live like that.”

“I had no concept whatsoever of how people lived and what poverty was until I came here.”

 

“When we were driving into the Compassion project, I stepped off that bus, and all of a sudden all of those children just swarmed around singing, jumping around, screaming and waving. 

“They were so excited.  There was just happiness all over their faces.”

“It was just so wonderful, it gives me goosebumps right now when I think about it.”

 

“They wanted to be touched, they wanted to be held.”

“I just completely lost it.”

“I just wanted to break down and cry.”

“Tears were just streaming.”

“I’ll never forget it, ever.”

“Our question in our mind was, ‘Which one is our child?’  And their question in their minds was, ‘Which one is my sponsor?’”

“Immediately Carmen and I started scanning the children, looking for our little boy.  They called his name, he stepped out and we just ran straight for us.”

“He just got up, ran straight into my arms and I was like, ‘I am not letting go of you.’”

 

“He sat down in our laps and was just coloring with us.  We pulled out Play-doh.  It was an experience I’ll never forget.”

“My brother and I both sponsored Victor.  We were able to present him with a soccer ball.  He kept touching it like, ‘Oh, what is this?  It’s all shiny and new.’  He was the man of the hour with that soccer ball.  He loved it.  It was great.  It was so touching, so amazing to meet him.”

“Meeting Patricia was incredible.  Because of a small, small sacrifice, she’s able to eat and she’s able to go to school.  And she didn’t have that before.”

 

“Compassion is one of the miraculous organizations.”

“I learned that Compassion doesn’t just have a standard of just giving them food, water and medical attention, but it’s giving them what they need.”

“I have learned more than I will ever learn in my life from three days of spending time with these children of God.”

“I think people come from American and look at people in this condition from a downward plane of view.  As I’ve grown to learn about these people and get to know them and see how they live, I realize that I need to look up to them.”

 

“I’m a die-hard fan of compassion for the rest of my life.  I will sponsor as many children through them as possible.”

“The small amount that I can give financially is life or death for some of these children.”

“$32 a month, that’s nothing for most Americans.  And to think that that can go to a whole other human being for a whole month, to get them to go to school, to have food and to learn about Jesus, it’s just a small sacrifice.”

“Knowing that something so small can become so huge, I never would have understood that until now.  I had no idea what their life was like.  After seeing it, I would sponsor 100 children if I could.  If I had the ability to do it, I would do it in a heartbeat.”

 

James 1:27, “Pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father is this:...”  Now I want to stop there because there’s some things in this text that I need you to see.  The first is this word “religion” in the Greek is used five times in the New Testament.  Three of the times, it’s translated “religion.”  Twice, it’s translated into the word “worship.”  So here’s what he’s saying.  He’s talking about pure worship in the sight of our God and Father.  And you need to hear “our God and Father” because this is talking to those who believe in Jesus Christ and have come to a saving knowledge of Him.  This is not God saying, “You feed the poor and take care of the widows and orphans and then you’re a part of Me.”  He’s saying, “Because you are a part of Me, these are actions that you should take.”  So these are not activities that we would do to curry favor with God, but rather out of a changed heart we would be a part of these things.  So the difference is one is full of grace and one is full of works.  And if you buy into the work end of things, you have left what is distinctively Christian, the free grace of Christ, and you have become like a billion cults, from the Jehovah’s Witnesses to the Mormons, in that there is this moral thing that you have to follow to get you right standing before God.  That is not correct.  So here we go, “Pure and undefiled religion in the sight of our God and Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their distress, and to keep oneself unstained by the world.” 

 

You need to look at this text as if it were a pendulum that swings back and forth.  Because what I’ve found is, when it comes to texts like these, we like to camp on one side or the other and very few of us want to walk where God has commanded us to walk.  I’ll explain it like this.  There are those out there who would define spirituality by social action.  They would say that what makes us right before God and what saves our soul and why we’re in good standing before God is because we feed the poor, we work at the homeless shelter, we give money to this, we send money here, we’ve been a part of this.  And they would equate spirituality to social action.  When I was at Beltway in Abilene, I would take college kids to Los Angeles every year for two reasons.  One is that there was this great organization out there and the other reason is that it was LA and was fun to go to for Spring Break.  So we would to out to the Dream Center, it was like 42 stories tall, each floor had a different kind of social action ministry thing that they would do.  And so everything from fixing cars to fixing houses, there were all of these different things you could be involved in.  But there was no accountability for real life change and real relationship with Jesus Christ.  They were a group of people that said, “What makes us right before God is social action.  It is not the cross of Jesus Christ, it is not the submission to Jesus Christ; it is taking care of the downtrodden.”  And there are those who would fall on that side and go, “No, this is pure religion.”  Now that’s not our problem here in the Bible Belt.  That is not where we are at in the swing of this pendulum.

 

The other side of the pendulum is that we would keep ourselves from being defiled by the world.  So what ends up happening is we think very little of widows and orphans and we put all of our energy, all of our time and all of our money, all of our efforts into insulating our world and making sure nothing bad gets in, with no regard to the poor or the downtrodden.  Before I spoke at Grace Bible Study one time, a friend of mine named Josh called me and said, “Hey, I want to pray for you before you go out there and speak tonight.”  I was like, “Okay, why don’t you come on back.”  He walked in and was like, “You’re going to have to trust me on this one.  Hold out your hands.”  And so I held out my hands.  He opened up this zip-loc bag of potting soil and dumps the potting soil in my hands.  Then he goes, “Now spit in it.”  At first I didn’t want to, but he insisted.  So I spit in my hands.  He said, “No.  Work up a lot of spit in your mouth and spit in your hands.”  If I didn’t know him, he would have been gone.  So I just worked it up in my mouth and spit in it.  He was like, “Now rub your hands together.”  I rubbed my hands together.  And he goes, “Now throw the excess dirt into the trash can.”  So I threw the excess dirt away.  And then he goes, “Now hold out your hands.”  I held out my hands.  And he said, “The kingdom hands are dirty hands.”  And then he walked out.  I was like, “You could have sent me an e-mail, man.  You didn’t have to do all this.”  The kingdom hands are dirty hands.

 

Flip over to 1 John 3, starting in verse 17.  “But whoever has the world's goods, and sees his brother in need and closes his heart against him, how does the love of God abide in him? Little children, let us not love with word or with tongue, but in deed and truth.”  Friday is my day off, and my father-in-law, my wife, my daughter and have a little ski boat that we chipped in to buy.  We went out on the lake for about four or five hours and just wakeboarded and had a great time.  Audrey loves the boat, so it’s good to get her out in the wind and the cold water.  After about four hours, we came home and Audrey and I washed the car.  Well, I’m washing the car and she just keeps washing the same headlight over and over again.  We finish the car and come inside and order pizza.  I give her a bath and get her in her pj’s and we eat pizza.  And then Lauren and I kind of giggle and laugh about what rookies we are.  The bath comes after pizza, not before pizza.  And so we clean her up again, sing some songs, read a book and do some praying.  I pray the benediction over them, “May the Lord bless you and keep you.”  And then we kiss her face, throw her in bed, threaten her with the spanking spoon, “Do not get out of the big girl bed.”  And then I went into the living room and open up my computer, got out my Bible and notes for this and just began to pray and think and work through this.  Lauren was asleep on our red chair, and I went and woke her and was like, “Hey baby, go on to bed.  For whatever reason, I’m up tonight.  I don’t know why but my mind’s just kind of working.  I’m not going to be able to sleep.”  So I got Lauren into bed and tucked her in, and I went back into the other room and worked a little bit more.  I saw that she had rented some movies from Blockbuster.  One of them was Hotel Rwanda.  If you haven’t seen it, you need to see it.  If you have not rented it, you go today and rent it.  I threw the DVD into the player, and I’m just sitting on my couch, so full I’m almost nauseous.  And I’m watching Hotel Rwanda.  If you don’t know what it’s about, it’s about the civil war with the Hutu an the Tutsis.  There were literally a million people slaughtered before there was finally an intervention on the part of the other nations.  One million people chopped with machetes and slaughtered because of nothing, because their noses are thinner.  It wasn’t even political; it was completely genocide.  So I’m watching that and here are these people who are just...and no one’s helping them. 

 

So I’m sitting there on my $2,000 leather couch, watching my television and I’m just going, “What am I doing here?”  So I got up and go sit down on the foot of my daughter’s bed.  I’m just watching her sucking on her pacifier and sleeping.  What would I do if I couldn’t feed her?  What would be in my soul if I couldn’t provide for or protect her?  So we have this beautiful day where we get up and eat donuts and drink orange juice and we get on the boat and cruise around the lake.  And then we come home, wash the car and we laugh and take a bath and play with weird toys.  And we eat great pizza until we’re almost sick.  And then we cuddle and we read and we pray.  She feels so safe in that little bed.  You can just tell she feels so at home and save with other people.  What did she do to get that?  What did I do to be able to give those things to her.  And beware of American arrogance here.  We did nothing, but we’re lucky enough to be born here.  It is not laziness and that people don’t want education in a lot of other countries.  It’s just that other countries are very broken and very bad.

 

So how can we really help?  Well, I think there’s several things we can really do.  Entry level is the Compassion project.  Entry level is $32 a month.  And don’t think I’m Sally Struthers up here.  I’m not asking you to send money; I’m asking you to spend money and then go.  We send no money anywhere in the world that we do not enable you to go and see and touch.  You want the orphanage in Liberia?  They’re going out there this summer.  We’ve got three trips scheduled for Asia, we’ve got two for Guatemala.  Anywhere our money goes, we let our people go see.  $32, it’s two weeks worth of Starbucks, one week if you get Frappuccinos.  For my wife and me, it’s the cost of seeing a movie after the tickets and all the refreshments are bought.  It’s one movie.  It’s 100 fewer channels on your television.  It’s bumping up your air conditioner two degrees.  It’s a golf game.  $32 and a real life is changed.  This isn’t the end; it’s the beginning.  We’d rather have you go.  I can speak just to the men because I am one.  Men, when all is said and done, tell me we don’t want to really matter and spend our lives on something glorious.  Tell me when all is said and done, we don’t want risk and danger.  So you can be a greeter here at the Village, which is awesome, or you can go oversees and die maybe for something glorious.  What if we really believed this stuff?

 

So we have the Compassion project in Guatemala.  150 of those kids are ours.  We want 300 more this weekend.  We want that project and the project in the neighboring town to be ours.  We are building there.  The structure that they live in, we continue to build on to.  I want to start building on the other one.  As believers in Christ, we have got to wrestle with the reality that we’re wealthy and what we should do with the money we have.  How much stuff do we really need?  How big do our televisions have to be?  How nice do our cars have to be?  How nice do our clothes have to be?  How nice do the places we eat have to be?  Because we continue to insulate ourselves while the rest of the world is dying.  So we continue to live off budget, getting deeper and deeper into debt.  At what point do we have to own the responsibility of the wealth that God has given to us?  And all of us are wealthy.  If you’ve got $20 in your wallet, you are wealthy.  To give you and example, we just purchased a two bedroom, 2,000 ft² apartment in Asia.  We’re paying $150 a month for it.  So don’t tell me you’re not wealthy.  We’re beyond wealthy.

 

My daughter’s on the other side of that wall.  She’s eating Goldfish crackers now in a little pink dress.  She’s singing songs, hearing a lesson.  And that was afforded to her by the death of Jesus Christ, not by anything her daddy decided to do.  I got on a shirt, some pants and my mother-in-law is cooking us a great meal as soon as this is over.  And that was by nothing of my own planning but just there mercy of Christ on our family.  You are dressed here in clothes, rode her in a car, will eat a meal here in a minute that a lot of the world would kill for.  So today as we come grab a little hunk of bread and dip it into a glass and put it in our mouth, may we be reminded of what was purchased for us and the mercy given given to us in Christ.

 

On the way out will be two Compassion stations.  I want you to pray about how you can be involved, how you can start.  Maybe some of you just want to jump into the trips.  Well, we’ll take about 12-14 trips this year.  Contact Jamie Hipp or get online and hit the missions button.  Where do you want to go?  Africa?  We’re there.  Asia?  We’re there a bunch.  You want to go to a place that’s safe?  We go there.  We also go to a couple of places where the first line on the government page is “No effective police force.”  It’s however deep the Lord wants you to go.  But according to the Word of God, the answer to the question of “Who else are we responsible for?” is a resounding “All the widows and the orphans.”  So I pray we wrestle with that.  And if you feel led, on your way out today, just grab a packet.  This is my hope for us, that we believe this, that we not be on that side of the pendulum that is just trying to keep themselves protected but rather would also care for widows and orphans in their distress.

 

Let’s pray.  “Father, I thank You so much for these men and women.  I thank You that our children are healthy and that they had a good breakfast this morning.  I thank You that we will leave this place and eat in such a way that we’re full and there’s plenty left.  Most of us will eat those meals in an air-conditioned, comfortable place.  And I don’t know what this is.  It’s not just Your mercy.  So I pray that even the simple act of eating in a place that is comfortable is not lost today but that we would revel in it and enjoy it and slow down chewing and taste and be grateful.  I pray that we would watch our children run around today in the yards and the house and be grateful.  As we drive our cars and see policemen and protection, I pray that we would be grateful.  I pray You help us wrestle, wrestle with the fact that we’ve got so much.  Help us wrestle with the questions of how much is too much and how much of our income are we to spend solely on us.  I pray that we would question how much of Your love is in us and that we do that by examining.  Do we see a brother in need and do nothing?  So You are better than we deserve, and You have been more kind to us than we can understand if we haven’t been to other places in the world.  I pray that You would guard our minds right now and let communion not just be this dead exercise or this ancient ritual.  But rather I pray there would be an enormous amount of gratitude for Your broken body and shed blood.  We love You. We want to love You more.  Help us.  It’s for Your beautiful name we pray.  Amen.” 