I love this time of year.  I think it's starting actually earlier and earlier, but I love this time of year.  There are some really distinct things about this time of year, some thinks that prey on those areas of nostalgia in our minds and in our hearts.  I'm 33 but I can remember coming to a candle light service and I remember the first time I was actually old enough to hold my own candle.  And then we would go out and look at Christmas lights afterwards and then get home.  In my household, what we were told was that if we were still awake when Santa came by, then he wasn't going to.  It was probably my first bout with neuroticism.  I mean you have to get up there and try to make yourself go to sleep despite the fact that you're very, very, very excited.  There's something very magical about just the tree and all the presents and the different things that are going on.  And then honestly as you get a little bit older, some of that magic kind of wanes.  By the time you're 18-19, you probably know exactly what you're getting.  In fact, you probably picked it out.  And then now I kind of feel like life's going full circle on me, being the parent of two small children.  Some of that magic's kind of back.  And then I completely understand now why I need them asleep by 8:30.  I get that.  I understand the game now.  I get it now, whereas maybe before I didn't get it at all.  And listen, whether you're religious or not, you have to admit that there's something that shifts in our culture at this time of year.  There's something that happens culturally in the U.S. And really world wide that kind of crosses almost every area of culture.  I know of nothing else like it.  It doesn't matter what genre of music you like, whether you like folk stuff, rap stuff, hip hop stuff, rock-n-roll stuff or easy listening, wherever you are, in the scope of things, this time of year all of a sudden everybody's programming shifts.  And either the whole station's thrown out and does nothing but Christmas music or there's Christmas music sprinkled into all of the genres.  All of a sudden the landscape changes.  There's lights on houses, there's fake deer in everybody's yards.  There are all sorts of things that begin to occur no other time.  Now, Halloween's kind of sneaking up on that.  That's troublesome, not as a pastor but as a human, in terms of yard decorating.  The house changes and even the food we eat shifts.  I mean all of a sudden we're eating food that you don't eat any other time of the year.  Nobody on Thursday night goes, “Candied yams.  That's what we're having tonight.  We're going to get yams and put marshmallows on the.  Green bean casserole!  We're smoking a ham, it's Tuesday.”  Nobody does that.  There are certain things that we eat this time of year that really throughout the rest of the year we probably don't get near them.  And so you've got the presents and the trees and yards decorated and food and music that makes us nostalgic.  You've got all these thing that start happening.  It's one of the weirdest shifts culturally that we have.  And I love every bit of it.  I really do.  I like getting presents, I like giving them.  I know you should say that the opposite way, but I think I said it right.  I enjoy both of those, the joy of giving the joy of receiving.  You've got all these really cool things that are happening. 

 

But here's my fear, and it's not a Christmas fear to be honest with you, it's just a consistent fear that I have for us.  And my fear is that for all the tinsel in the trees, for all the presents and the pomp, for all these lights and family coming in and food to be eaten, for all this stuff that we've got going on, for all the shadows, if we're not careful, then we're going to miss the form.  And if you see the shadows but miss the form, then when everything's said and done, you've got Tuesday afternoon.  You'll have more trash than normal, you'll have a little more debt than normal and you'll have a dirtier house than normal.  But besides that, that will be just what you have.  If you empty this thing of depth and you stay on the surface, I think you suck the life right out of it.  In Luke 3, the Bible tells us that Jesus gets in the water with John the Baptist.  John the Baptist had just finished a sermon that said, “Hey, there's a guy coming...”  People were starting to think that John the Baptist was the Messiah and John the Baptist was like, “I am not the Messiah.  Another guy's coming.  I shouldn't even touch His feet.”  Jesus gets in the water and says, “Hey, baptize Me.”  John the Baptist argues, Jesus goes, “I'm God.”  And then John the Baptist baptizes Him.  And he pulls Him out of the water and the audible voice of God speaks to where the whole crowd can hear it.  And the audible voice of God says, “This is My beloved son with whom I am pleased, I am well pleased, I am very pleased.”  Now, this idea of God's pleasure in Jesus is found just really four times in the New Testament.  You get this idea of God being pleased, God being pleased in, God having pleasure in.  And in one of those and this is what I want us to talk about just quickly on dealing with the form vs. the shadows.  In Colossians 1, it says that all the fullness of God dwelt in Jesus and this brought Him pleasure.  Now the reason we've got to unpack this some tonight is because that's an unbelievable statement, that all the fullness of God dwelt in Jesus, this little baby.  Because Scripture tells us in the book of Job that all of creation is but the fringes of His power.  That means that everything that you can see, from the stars to the Grand Canyon, from mountains to oceans, all of those are but a fringe, but a slice of, but a sliver of  the majesty and glory of God.  So I don't know if you've ever stood at the mouth of the Grand Canyon and let it suck the life out of you.  Because it does.  No one feels strong in that moment.  Nobody's like, “I can bench press three plates.” while standing in front of the Grand Canyon.  I don't know if you've ever stood at the base of Mt. Ranier or even if you've ever flown into Seattle and looked out the left side of the plane 30 minutes before you land and see that you're right alongside Mt. Ranier.  If you've ever gone to Hawaii in November and December and into January and been on the north shore and watched 10-12 foot swells shore break.  And they'll pretty much be, “Don't go into the water if you don't want to die.  They're flying that flag.  I don't know if you've ever been there, but all of that, the might of it all, the size of it all, the majesty of it all, according to the Scripture, is fringes, nothing, tiny, unworthy to be compared.  But the Scriptures say that all the fullness of that majesty dwelt in Christ, in Jesus, in this baby. 

 

Now, we see it a couple of times in Scripture where God pulls back the veil.  There's this story where Jesus takes the three, not the twelve but the three, up on the side of the mountain and you get the story of the Transfiguration where God kind of pulls the veil back.  And it says in that text when God pulls back this kind of facade that most of us walk in that Jesus shone as bright as the sun.  And then in another place in the Bible, in the book of Revelation, it plays on the same kind of wording.  In the book of Revelation, Jesus is sitting at the right hand of God.  And in His right hand He held the seven stars which were symbolic of the seven churches in the seven largest cities in the ancient world.  And that's what they are in his right hand, they're kind of play things to Him, toy things to Him.  These immense cities that we would say, “Oh, look how big they are.  Look how mighty they are.”  They're all seven of them sitting in His right hand.  They're like a yo-yo to Him.  And so it says in this one, to further this illustration of the majesty of God dwelling in Jesus, it says He shone like the sun at full strength.

 

I have the same regimen every morning pretty much seven days a week.  Before I go to bed tonight, I get the coffee ready.  For whatever reason, we have not caught up to technology in the Chandler house, so we don't have one that has an alarm that makes it go off.  You have to literally press a button.  So I get the coffee ready to go, my alarm goes off and I hit snooze, not off but snooze.  I then walk to the kitchen, start the coffee, go back and get in bed for three minutes and fifty-two seconds.  The alarm goes off this time and I turn it off and I go pour me a cup of coffee, grab my Bible, my journal, a book if I'm in it and I take it and I sit in a black chair that faces three windows in my home.  And I'll read some and I'll write some.  And here's what starts happening.  The first thing you see is a little bit of light outside and then it goes pink.  Especially this time of year, for whatever reason it starts pink.  And then pink gives way to a pinkish orange.  Then the pink is gone and it's just orange.  Now, the next thing I see is right above Rich and Martha's house, because I live in the suburbs and you don't get to see the horizon.  You know exactly what I'm saying.  I see a tiny sliver of basically fire.  Within fifteen minutes of first spotting that, I'll have to shift out of my black chair and onto the couch facing this way.  Because even at 7:00-7:30, the sun coming straight into those windows is too much.  Not at full strength, not at full power, not at full heat but already too much.  This is the Scriptures trying to get across to you and me the size, the scope, the power of Jesus.  Now you're going to see it a few times in the New Testament when He does things like command the wind and the rain and they obey Him or curse a fig tree and it shrivels up and dies or tell a little girl that's been dead for a day to get up and she listens.  In each one of these instances, people stop walking so close to Him for a little while.  The majesty, the might, the glory, the power of God fully in Jesus. 

 

But here's where it gets so intriguing.  Powerful things usually have a tendency to struggle with gentleness.  But in Jesus, you have the fullness of God, you have the fullness of the majesty of God purely dwelling in Jesus, but you also have gentleness, humility, meekness, forgiveness and love.  Like let me illustrate this.  In Matthew 12:18-20, it says this, “Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased.  I will put my Spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles.  He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets; a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to victory;...”  So this immense, majestic, powerful Jesus wouldn't break off a bruised reed, but He would hold it until it was healthy.  He wouldn't snuff out a wick smoldering but would cup His hand and blow until it relighted.   Here's the enigma, here's what's so hard for us to get our minds around.  In Jesus is absolute sovereignty over heaven and earth and yet complete obedience, infinite majesty and infinite meekness, complete self-reliance and utter obedience to God the Father, the fullness of God dwelling in Christ, majesty and mercy in the same space.  Now listen, this is the gospel.  Jesus is ultimate reality.  He stands behind all things, in all things, through all things.  Throughout all the Evangelical language here's what you get:  Christ is the form that casts all shadows.  And so if you can get that, then you've got weight and depth and beauty.  But if you don't get that and you get a sweater...  Okay, I'll give you this example.  There's something about presents that's drug-like to small children.  Here's what I mean.  It's been my experience with a five year old and a two year old now, my kids tomorrow morning are going to open all of those things up and there is going to be a euphoria that really I don't know explain.  And then about two hours later, there's going to be a crash.  I'm going to find my son behind the couch with a Tonka truck and paper all over himself, and he's going to crash.  There is a euphoria that comes with presents.  And so tomorrow morning, it's going to be a pretty cool scene.  We're going to be around, Lauren will make me light a fire even if it's 86°F outside.  And I'll get the fire going and then we'll read the Christmas story.  We'll do some traditions that we do and then we'll rip into those things, man.  And I'm from the ghetto where we just get all of our presents and go.  Lauren's orderly, so everybody gets one, which is absolutely torture.  I've been trying to pull her the other way with no success.  Now, we're going to open those presents and Christmas Barbie's coming out, a Tonka truck, a metal truck not one of those little ghetto plastic trucks, I mean a full on metal, someone's going to get hurt on it kind of toy.  And we're going to open up that stuff.  Mama's got some stuff she doesn't know is coming.  It's going to be a good morning.  And here's what's going to happen.  If that's all I see, that's a pretty good morning.  If all I get is the joy of being a giver and the joy of getting, that's a pretty good morning.  But what if in the middle of all of that joy, what if in the middle of my daughter lighting up, of my wife being surprised, of getting something good myself, what if in the middle of all of that, I'm reminded of Jesus' words in Matthew 7 where He says, “If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!”  Now all of a sudden in that moment it's more than Christmas Barbie, it's more than the Tonka truck, it's more than a new sweater, it's more than a tree and presents.  Now all a sudden there's something deeper, there's something divine in the room.  All of a sudden something so ordinary becomes so spiritual and vital.  Or what if, as we're sitting around the table and we're eating great food and drinking great wine or sweet tea and we're enjoying that moment together, what if instead of green bean casserole and smoked ham, I remember that the book of Ecclesiastes teaches me that good meal is practice for heaven?  Now all of a sudden it goes well beyond turkey.  Now all of a sudden it goes well beyond good wine.  All these things are good in and of themselves, but the problem with the human soul has nothing to do with diet or morality.  The problem wit the human soul is we were created deep things and we breathe superficial air.  It's like eating sugar constantly.  You're going to constantly be sick and never feel full despite the fact that you eat and eat and eat.  And this isn't a Christmas thing.  Christ is everywhere.  He's everywhere for those who have eyes to see. 

 

And listen, just on social commentary here, if there's not something behind this, it's the weirdest thing in the world.  If there's not something behind this, then we need to slow down and go, “I just bought a fake tree...I just cut down a real tree and dragged it into my house and threw lights on it...I buy my kids stuff all the time, but for whatever reason, I just freaked out and bought the store...I just risked my life to hang lights...There is a fake reindeer on my lawn.”  Alright, we've got to come to grips with a lot of weird stuff if there's not something behind all this.  There is.  So I'm not railing against consumerism.  I hope I got some good stuff.  I'm just telling you there's deeper waters in which to swim.  And this is my hope for you.

 

And listen, I'm young but I'm not naïve.  I know some of you are going, “That's a really pretty postcard you just drew up there, pastor.  But the truth is, my family, it's going to be volatile.  The truth is, people are only coming to my house because I love my mother.  If I didn't love my mother, I wouldn't let those fools in my house.”  Some of you know what I'm talking about, huh?  This apparently is the “issues” service.  Yeah, I get it.  But can I be just very honest with you tonight?  If ever the gospel of Jesus Christ makes sense, it's at that table, where you can serve and love and encourage those who may have never done anything but harm you.  Now the world would say, “Let's fight, let's be angry, let's pay back, let's get in our jab,” but the gospel says, “No no no, serve, love.”  So we've got depth.  All of a sudden we've got depth around something that was once volatile.  Now we've got God lingering long after all the presents are open.

 

Over and over again, Jesus tells stories and then He says this, “He who has an ear, let him hear.  He who has eyes let him see.”  This is my hope for you, that we might be able to throw out all the evangelical jargon and just see Him, see Him in the presents, see Him in the tree, see Him in the tinsel, see Him in the pomp, see Him in dinner, see Him in the leftovers later that night, see Him the next day at the day after sales, see Him in the car, see Him on the radio, see Him that you might drink deeply.  Because that's what you were created for.  And if you never see Jesus but only see the shadows, then all the weight's gone. 

 

Let's pray.  “Father, I thank You for tonight.  I thank You for just a chance to come together and talk about You.  Thank You for grace and mercy.  I do pray that You would enable us to see You, hear You and that You would allow us to dwell deep, not just the next couple of days but every day.  Help us.  It's for You beautiful name.  Amen.”

 

The Old Testament prophets and the New Testament witnesses say that on a dark night, in the middle of nowhere...and listen to me, Bethlehem in the 1st century is the middle of nowhere.  It's El Paso.  And I'm not dogging El Paso.  There's an intrinsic beauty there...I've heard, but I'm saying to get there requires driving for hours through nothing.  To get there enables you to see how fast your car will really go.  In the middle of nowhere, the Old Testament prophets and the New Testament witnesses describe His birth like this, that all of a sudden in the middle of darkness, the light was born, that light entered into the world.  And listen, you don't even have to be religious in here or have any kind of relationship with God, you can be agnostic, you can be atheist, you can think we're all crazy, most of the time I do.  Now, here's what you can't deny.  There was a shift in the world that night.  There was a shift in the world unlike anything else we've seen up until this point.  Here's what I'll tell you.  In the middle of Bethlehem, the middle of nowhere, a man whose mother was basically a peasant girl and whose dad was a carpenter, who had no kind of lineage or power to speak of in the 1st century world, He lives His life and He's crucified and died...we'll get to that when you come back at Easter.  And let me tell you a little bit of history.  Within 200 years of the birth of Christ, almost every urban area in Rome has a dominant Christian presence.  In fact, did you know that the word “pagan,” which we use as Evangelicals to speak of people who do bad things morally, that word “pagan” in the 1st century referred to people who lived outside of the cities.  Because Christianity had so taken root in the cities that it was those outside of the city who hadn't heard of Him yet.  And so it was kind of the 1st century word for redneck, I suppose, country folk dwelling outside the city.  But the light spread and it spread and it spread and it spread.  And here's the thing.  It continues to spread.  And there have been all kinds of things to try to knock it out.  I mean, you can study history, not just Christian history either.  There are those that see this as the greatest threat to mankind ever, you know, grace and mercy and love and those kind of things that destroy people.  And they've tried to quell it.  Early on in Rome, we were thrown to the lions and crucified by the thousands.  And you can just move through history.  Governments have tried to hard press it and kill it out, even in a society like ours that is overtly materialistic and has more to do than God.  In fact, one of the big problems that's happening with Evangelicalism in the states is most people have just enough of Jesus to be inoculated to the rest of him.  Like it's okay to like Jesus; you had just better not love Him because that's a little uncomfortable for all of us.  And yet the light continues to spread.  Is it perfect?  Well Jesus is, but that's about where perfection ends.  And I meet tons of people who don't want to be Christians because they know too many of them.  But I get that.  I was once one of them.  You just finally get to the place where you can't discredit God because of people.  The Scriptures say it will continue to spread until there is a visible presence among every tribe, every tongue, every nation, every people group on the planet.  It's just not going to stop.  And after 2000 years, it's like He really was God and He knew what He was saying.  Because it hasn't.  And so we'll end tonight just by celebrating that quiet night that started it all.  In fact, for some of you in here tonight, this is the first time there's really been any Christ in Christmas, this is the year that He kind of draws you unto Himself, this is the year He calls you, this is the year justification took root.  So will you stand with me as we celebrate silent night.

 

May the Lord bless you and keep you.  May you see past all the shadows to the form.  May you see Him tonight as you walk into your house or drive around and see lights.  May you see Him tomorrow morning as you open presents.  And may you see His beauty, depth and meaning behind everything.  This is my prayer for you.  You're loved.  Merry Christmas.
