Hey, how are we?  We have lots to do, so let’s go to 2 Timothy 2.  I think that this week in our culture is very similar to a new semester in college.  It’s like the adult version of that.  It’s like everyone right now thinks that they’re going to do different things next year as opposed to the way they did them this year, despite the fact that there’s not a lot of historical precedent to back up that hope at all.  It’s like every college student starts each semester thinking that, despite the fact that they made a 0.2 the semester before, that this is the semester that they’re pulling the 4.0.  But three weeks later they’re asking you to borrow a pencil.  So it’s the adult version of that, and it’s kind of silly.  Now this isn’t all of us.  I think some people are just completely content to let life live them and have no real thought about what life is and what deeper meanings are.  But I think this time of year the bulk of people have these thoughts of “there are these things in my life that I wish weren’t the way they were.  I would like to change this, I would like to change that.  This year’s going to be different because of this.”  And most of that is borderline silly, and almost all of it is surface, which is why nothing really changes.  Probably the easiest example to give you is when I moved to Highland Village from Corinth just a few years ago.  We got a gym membership at Lifetime Fitness.  Lifetime is a good place, it’s a nice place to work out for most of the year.  But the month of January is a nightmare.  This week is going to be a normal week.  It’s actually going to be light this week, but starting that next week after the New Year, there are literally going to be hundreds and hundreds of new people and new old people.  And by new old people, I mean those who did the same thing last January.  So for whatever reason, we look in the mirror and go, “Where did that come from?” and get in there and try to do something about it.  But historical precedent shows that there are regulars who are going to stay regulars, and most of the new batch will be gone by February.  Here’s why.  If you’re trying to get into shape and lose weight but have not done the deeper issues and the deeper digging to try to find out why you use food to comfort emotional and spiritual pain or why you’re lazy, then all you’ve done is put a band-aid on something much deeper and much more problematic.  And even if you can shed a few pounds, at best all you’ve done is thrown some dirt over the weeds.  They’ll eventually push their way through the dirt. 

 

So I wanted to use this week and next to talk to you about 2009, and not superficial, surface stuff.  I wanted to talk with you about maybe making 2009 that year you finally get out of the spiritual kiddy pool and take off your floaties.  Maybe this year for the first time church attendance wouldn’t be your spiritual goal.  Maybe this year we could, as aggressively and as disciplined as we can, position ourselves under that waterfall of God’s grace and see 2009 be a year we really got after Him.  And I know to some of you that’s not appealing at all.  You like just coming to church.  It’s church as a hobby.  I gave up trying to understand it.  Your parents’ faith doesn’t get it done.  Your attendance doesn’t get it done, not biblically, not religiously, not in any world.  So I gave up trying to understand that.  Some of you aren’t interested in any type of spiritual growth at all, but some of us are.  Some of us are tired enough.  Some of us are tired enough of the fact that we’ve had certain sins that have followed us around for decades.  Some of us are tired enough that we live one life here and another life outside of here.  Some of us are tired enough of coming here week after week after week and being stirred up to change and to follow the Lord more passionately and to submit our lives fully to Him, only to see that disintegrate before we get home in our car.  So what I wanted to do is take a look at some thoughts in regard to the pursuit of the Lord in the hopes that that would work itself out somewhere practically in your life.  And the apostle Paul is even going to say here to Timothy, “Hey, you’ve got to think on these things a little bit to come up with practical applications.”  I love it when Scripture says that.  Paul’s going to outright say that to Timothy.  But this is my hope.  My hope is that 2009 would be a year for you and for me where we took very seriously our spiritual pursuit, our pursuit of God.  My hope is that we didn’t delegate our lives to really superficial goals, including moral goals, which in the end are superficial. 

 

So let’s look at 2 Timothy 2, and then we’ll go from there.  The apostle Paul never married, never had any children.  Timothy began to be discipled by him when he was a teenager, and Paul has deep, deep affection for Timothy.  He loves him like a son, and you’re going to hear some of that very quickly.  “You then, my child,...”  That’s a term of endearment.  You don’t just say “You then, my child” to people you don’t know...I hope.  “You then, my child, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus, and what you have heard from me in the presence of many witnesses entrust to faithful men who will be able to teach others also.  Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.  No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.  An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.  It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.  Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.”  He’s saying, “Don’t take this at surface level.  There’s a lot behind this, there’s a lot underneath this and there’s a lot that you need to dig into so that practically you know how to apply what I’m talking about.”  But before we get into the three-headed metaphor, I don’t think there is another piece of what we believe that you’ve got to get down like you’ve got to get down in verse 1.  Because you’ve got to understand where our strength comes from.  There is within every man and woman an intrinsic amount of discipline.  Some of us are very high disciplined.  Our alarm clock goes off, we watch what we eat, we’re high disciplined.  And then some of us are very low disciplined, but we do get out of bed.  So depending on the scale, everyone has a certain amount of strength, a certain amount of “I’m going to make this happen.”  The problem is, when it comes to pursuing God, if you do it on your own strength, you will fail outright or you’ll morally succeed and birth pride and arrogance into your life and not be any closer to the kingdom by obeying the rules.  So he says, “You’ve got to understand where your strength comes from.  Your strength comes from the gospel.  It comes from grace.”  So here’s what he means by that.  My strength to follow Christ comes from the fact that all of my failures, shortcomings and sins were paid in full by Jesus Christ on the cross.  My past, my present and even the sins I have yet to commit are all paid for in the cross of Christ.  If you don’t understand that, when you stumble, when you struggle, when you fall, your knee-jerk reaction will be that God is displeased and angered, and most will run from Him rather than to Him.  So the first part where we draw strength is that, even in my shortcomings, Christ paid the bill.  In fact, it might be better to say especially in my shortcomings, Christ paid the bill.  But that’s only one piece.  The second piece is that, in the cross of Christ, through the Holy Spirit, I have been given all that I need today to be all that God has asked me to be today.  God has not asked more of me today than what He’s empowered me to walk in.  So He hasn’t commanded me to love my wife in certain ways, to love my children in certain ways, to handle my money in certain ways, to walk with men in certain ways and then said, “Good luck that.”  But He empowers and never asks more of me than what I can sustain by His grace.  So my strength, day by day by day, comes from the fact that there is no condemnation for me in Jesus Christ and all that He has asked me to be, He will empower me to be.  That’s where we find our strength, nowhere else.  It’s not in your ability to be disciplined.  I think if we were honest here, you could look back on historical precedent and know that you’re not good. 

 

So with this as the base, with the gospel as the foundation, He gets into this three-headed metaphor of what it means to pursue and chase Jesus Christ in a relationship with God.  And then in each element, He kind of outlines this reward.  Let’s look at it.  Verse 3, “No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him. ”  My wife is in her second trimester with our third child, and my she had a rough day yesterday.  She had been doing really well, she had gotten out of the first trimester, she started feeling real healthy but yesterday was a rough day.  She saw breakfast twice if you catch my drift.  It was just a tough day.  She wasn’t feeling well, so she kind of laid on the couch.  It was a good day for this to happen because I was home so I could handle the other duties.  My wife has several trick and I don’t think she knows I know them, but I know them.  She has several tricks to get me to do things around the house.  Like she’ll lay on the couch and I’ll kind of cuddle up with her and try to watch TV with her and she’ll flip to Anne of Green Gables or something like that.  So I’ll sit there for like ten minutes, and then I’ll go, “Ah, I’m going to go clean the kitchen.”  She knows I have to do something because I’m task oriented.  If I’m learning something, that’s great, but if it’s Pride and Prejudice, I’m out.  So I thought that that was what was going happen yesterday, but I think she was feeling bad because she was sick and I had to do some things I don’t normally do.  And so she’s flipping through the channels and comes across the History Channel, which was playing an all day marathon of Band of Brothers, the story of the 101st Airborne Division in WWII.  I grew up on military bases, my dad was a Navy man, and let me try to explain to you a really simple lesson that’s coming out of this text.  Soldiers are single minded.  And what I mean by that is they have an objective that none of the details around them will sway them from.  I’ll use the Band of Brothers 101st Airborne as an example.  In Normandy when those planes flew over, they scattered those boys all over Normandy.  They were not in the units they were trained in, they were not with their friends, some of them couldn’t find other guys for days.  There is a plan of action that military personnel put together that states the objective.  And it doesn’t matter what the plan is; the plan always changes once someone is shooting at you.  Everything sounds brilliant until someone chucks a grenade at you, and then plans go out the window.  Now all of a sudden, “We’re not going left, we’re going right.  And now they had better flank instead of staying put, and we’ll go here.”  The plan changes, but the objective never does.  And what he’s saying here is that to be a good soldier of Jesus Christ, we have one objective – an ever increasing joy in the work and person of Jesus Christ and the Godhead that puts to death sin in our life and creates ever-increasing joy.  That’s the goal, that’s the objective.  It does not matter, any other periphery detail or event in your life does not sway us from the objective.  Be a good soldier.  Chase the one true, one real, one right thing.  Be a good soldier of Jesus Christ.

 

Okay, that’s really ambiguous, isn’t it?  He gives us a hint on what this might look like in everyday life when he says that soldiers don’t get wrapped up in civilian affairs.  This idea of entanglement is found several times in the New Testament, particularly in Hebrews 12 when the writer of Hebrews really tries to encourage the men he was writing the letter to by saying, “Hey, there’s two things you have to watch out for.  You have to watch out for sin, and you have to watch out for other entanglements.”  Most of us think like this, which has really been deadly to our spiritual growth.  We think, “This is what’s right, this is what’s wrong.  As long as I stay away from what’s wrong and I do what’s right, I’ll be good.”  The problem with that is it’s not biblical.  Now there are definitely commands that say, “Do this...don’t do this.”  Those are about your joy.  But here’s what I would contend with you.  Most of what is killing your spiritual love for Jesus Christ is not morally sinful, but it’s morally neutral.  Which means you have given something that is not wicked, is not sinful and undue amount of position in your life, and it’s robbing you of affection for Jesus Christ.  So he’s saying that we are single-minded in our purpose and you had better watch out things that are good things that you’ve turned into ultimate things and therefore robbed yourself of a desire and passion to follow Jesus. 

 

And then he throws out this reward.  He’s going to say next that we run and we’re good soldiers so that we might have the pleasure of the one who enlisted us.  Let’s talk real life here. We act and respond one way around people who love us, take pleasure in us, find joy in us.  We tend to want to be around them.  We tend to trust them.  And why wouldn’t we trust them?  They think we’re great.  They take pleasure in us, so we love being around them.  In the same way, people whose nerves we get on, who don’t like us, who are disappointed in us, we tend to avoid them and resent them.  The quickest way for you to see someone else’s weaknesses is for them to not like you.  If they don’t like you, in a matter of seconds you will download all their faults and then become resentful at how they don’t like you when they’re such a scumbag.  If you don’t get the gospel, when you struggle you’re going to think that God is disappointed in you and you’re going to run from Him rather than understanding that God’s pleasure in you is not predicated on your moral behavior but the cross, which is the kindness of God that leads us to repentance.  You’ve got to get this down.  You’ve got to understand it.  If you don’t understand this piece, you’re not walking in Christian theology.  You’re outside the bounds of Christian faith if you don’t understand that it’s the cross of Christ that purchased for you right standing before God Almighty.  It’s not that you’re a better version of who you used to be.  You’ve got to kill that off.  Alright, be a good soldier.

 

And then he moves on from there.  “Share in suffering as a good soldier of Christ Jesus.  No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.  An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.”  Basically if you cheat, you don’t win.  Let me unpack it like this.  As early as you can, I think it’s a really good idea to get into your head that you’re not as smart as you think you are.  You’re not as smart and not as clever as you think you are.  Just because you hang out with morons doesn’t make you the smartest man alive.  It makes you the smartest moron.  There are going to be temptations to do it your way and not God’s.  I’ll give you practical examples.  In my marriage there are moments where I’m tired and she’s tired, I’m stressed and she’s stressed, and in those moments my first knee-jerk reaction most of the time is not “Love her like Christ loved the church...Wash her in the water of the Word.”  No, I’m a teacher, so I want to teach her the injustice that just occurred.  I need a white board and 48 minutes.  “This is you and this is me suffering under your injustice.  I’m going to break down Proverbs 31 for you here.  What it is is a...”  I’m not saying that’s what I do, I’m just saying that’s my knee-jerk impulse.  So what ends up happening is I’ve got my way which is, “I’ve been wronged and that is unacceptable” or I’ve got God’s way which is, “You walk in grace and mercy towards your girl.  You treat her with respect.  And even if you have to have hard conversations, you do it as one who is gentle and loves her soul.”  With my kids, there are days that I come home tired and I don’t feel like coming after their hearts.  Like you can be really involved in your kid’s life and not go after their heart at all.  It’s not a good parenting skill, it’s not a good parenting style, it’s not a good plan, but to go after a kid’s heart takes work.  Because kids don’t want to give up their hearts...to anyone.  Here’s a simple way to show it to you.  “How was school today?”  “Fine.”  “What did you learn?”  “I don’t know.”  “Well, who did you hang out with?”  “Friends.”  It doesn’t take them long to box up.  So to go after their heart requires more work than just, “How was your day?  Good?  Okay, I’m going to go watch some television.”  Sometimes I don’t want to go after their hearts.  Sometimes I’m okay that they just said they were alright. 

 

But there’s God’s way and then there’s mine.  There are difficult people at this church that often I would just like to educate them and not fulfill my calling, which is to love them.  And if there is correction needed, it is to be given gently.  There are sometimes I’d just like to educate.  And even in what I do, there are over and over and over again the temptations to break the rules to get to the finish line.  For some of you it’s going to be a business decision where you’ve got this opportunity to make this amount of money, but it might be a little shady.  And he’s saying, “No, we run as one to get the prize.  We run and we don’t break the rules.  We follow God’s way.”  Some of the greatest advice I could give you is to get into your mind now that you cannot trust yourself and that you’re going to submit life to godly counsel and Scripture.   For some of you, your world will burn before you get that, but maybe God in His merciful plan today would open up your heart and mind to that.  You are not as smart as you think you are.  I’m not, no one is.  We are finite and small.  And then for the reward, he’s got this idea of a crown, and that’s always eschatological in the Scriptures.  It’s talking about this “Well done, good and faithful servant.”  It’s “You ran well, you ran hard.  Here’s your crown.”

 

It’s this last one that I want to spend the bulk of my time on.  “An athlete is not crowned unless he competes according to the rules.  It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.”  The farmer, more than the other two, is completely dependent on God.  Like the soldier can call on reinforcements.  He can get his boys there in a hurry.  The athlete can get on a protein shake or some creatine monohydrate.  The farmer is dependent.  He cannot make it rain.  He can not keep the wind from blowing.  He can not stop it from freezing.  The farmer, more than these other two, is completely dependent upon the mercies of God.  But it just called him the hard-working farmer.  Which means that despite the fact that almost everything is in God’s control and not his, the farmer doesn’t get up in the morning, sit on the couch and go, “Father, there’s a lot of weeds on the north forty.  My prayer today is that in Your infinite mercy You would remove the weeds from the north forty, You would make it rain and that a crop might be abundant.  Because if you don’t take care of those weeds, then it’s going to choke out some of the crop, which gets into Your ten percent.  And I want Your house full.  I want Your wealth to be seen, so take care of those weeds, grow that crop and let’s show them Your glory.  Amen.  Oh, I’ll be here on the couch, so if You have some other blessings You’d like to bestow on me while You get the weeds and the crops grown, I’ll be in here.  I struggle with laziness, Father, so help me.”  Here’s the thing.  I think we’re giggling when we should be crying.  The next couple of weeks, anytime you’re in an environment with a bunch of other believers, ask them whether they’re content in their walk with Jesus Christ or frustrated.  I bet you 80-90% of them go, “I’m frustrated.”  Now ask them what they’re frustrated about and they’ll answer you, “Well, I’m just so undisciplined....I just struggle with this...I’ve struggled with this for so long...”  And then here’s where it will break down.  Ask them what they’re doing, where they’re going and what they’re trying in order to gain victory over that or see God move in that or to do something about that.  I swear to God on High you’ll hear crickets.  Because we’re the farmer sitting on the couch begging God to remove weeds.  I’m not liar.  Some of you have been wrestling with secret sin for decades.  Some of you have lustful minds and wicked hearts and every Sunday you come in and hear the preaching, hear the music and go, “Okay, not anymore.  We’re going to go.  Let’s do this.”  And then you do nothing.  Or you’ve sat here and you’ve rocked during worship and you’ve said, “God, just take this from me.  I hate this about me.  Would You remove this in. me.”  And then you go out and do nothing, no movement.  No, the farmer gets out of bed, gets into the field as the sun comes up and he pulls weeds until his hands are bloody all the while begging God to make it rain.  Now if it doesn’t rain, the crops still die, but he’s taking care of the weeds.  Now I have to wonder how many of you are stuck in this habitual, nominal Christianity. 

 

Here’s what I think did it to the 20 year olds.  I think we just absolutely jacked you up with youth camps and Disciple Now’s.  Because we taught you that your faith is event driven, which means that you go from motivation to motivation to motivation and never learned steadfast following.  So you went to youth camp, God knows we sang for 120 minutes and you got all wrapped up and then we did afterglow afterwards.  And we did well for a couple of months and began to fade, but it’s okay because Fall Retreat is here.  We went to Fall Retreat and did well for a couple of months, started struggling, but here we have Disciple Now.  We went to Disciple Now, it started to fade, so we went back to youth camp.  And no one ever learned what it was like to steadfastly follow the Lord and to be a disciple of Jesus Christ.  Instead they lived from steroid shot to steroid shot to steroid shot until all the steroids are gone and you shrivel up and in your mid-twenties point back to when you were sixteen as your glory days in Christ.  I’m wondering how many of us are the farmer sitting on his couch.  All the fields are ravaged, producing little to no fruit and we just keep going, “God, please do something here.” 

 

Because listen, there’s a lot at stake in this one.  There’s a lot at in pursuing God in a disciplined fashion.  He says that the farmer who does it like this gets the first fruits.  Now if you cross reference fruits, you’re going to get to Galatians.  “The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness and self-control.”  And let me tell you how we have robbed that text of a lot of its power.  We’ve changed it from the “fruit of the Spirit” to the “fruits of the Spirit.”  And then we do this really kind of ridiculous game where we list them all out and grade on each one.  We go, “Well, I’ve got pretty good love, but my faithfulness stinks.  Peace?  Somewhat, but I’d give myself an A+ on joy.”  I think you’re lying to yourself.  First of all, that’s not plural.  It’s the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness and self-control, and they grow together.  If you disagree, I would love to enter a dialogue about how on earth you can have love but not peace and faithfulness.  I would love to talk at length how you can have joy but be faithless.  That’s not how it works.  That’s a silly little game.  He says the hard-working farmer gets the first share of the fruit, which means your joy is at stake.  Your deep abiding joy is at stake in your pursuit of Jesus Christ. 

 

So I’ve got to wonder, at any real level is there a pursuit of Jesus Christ?  Is there a desire to know Him?  Is there any objective evidence in your life?  And I’m not taking you to some checklist.  I’m not asking you if you’ve watched rated-R movies, if you’ve read My Utmost for His Highest, if you’ve been to a John Piper conference.  I haven’t asked you any of that.  I’m not creating some checklist of dos and don’ts for you.  And that’s why I think Paul ended this little idea in verse 7 where he goes, “You need to think on this.  You need to dwell on this, because there is a lot here.”  And if 2009 has any real hope of you pressing under the waterfall of grace and letting Him transform your heart, there’s got to be movement in your life.  You can’t just sit on the couch and wait for God to do something.  It’s not going to work like that.  You might get motivated for a couple of weeks, but sustaining, transforming power is a day by day effort.  You are the accumulative effect of your prior years.  Whatever this moment is for you, you didn’t get to this moment filled with life, filled with bitterness, filled with joy, filled with anger, you did not get there at 8 o’clock this morning.  Day after day after day after day, you decided to do certain things, to not do certain things, to extend certain things, to not extend certain things and this is where we got.  And right now, whether you like it or not, like me or not, like what I say or not, you are deciding what tomorrow looks like for you.  No one accidentally falls into godliness.  If someone did, I’ve never met them.  And even the apostle Paul was just on his horse when the Lord lit him up.  He still had three years of walking with the apostles before he became Paul.  So is there any movement?  Is there any desire?  What’s your plan?  Do you even have one?

 

So let me tell you where we’re going next week.  Some of you love Jesus Christ with your whole heart.  You love Him.  When you get to talking about Him, you just beam, but you are about as empty headed as you can imagine when it comes to who He is and how He works.  And you’re going, “What’s the problem with that?  Isn’t that to goal, to love Jesus?”  There is a problem with that.  If you don’t think there’s a problem with that, go up to your girl and go, “Baby, I love your blue eyes” and have her go, “I don’t have blue eyes!”  Is that not a problem?  If not, your girl’s codependent.  Get her into Recovery.  She needs some help.  So some of you just have this heart that burns for Him, but you don’t know any theology, you don’t now any doctrine, you don’t know your Bible well, you prooftext all the time, you take obscure half verses and apply it to stuff it doesn’t apply to.  That’s not good.  It will lead people away from what’s right and true.  But then on the other side of things, you’ve got guys and girls who have brilliant theological minds, but their heart’s the size of a raisin and they’ve got bitterness and unforgiveness in their heart.  And when a bitter, unforgiving person gets a hold of theology, they become bullies.  So next week we’re going to outline these two paths.  We’re going to go over some things you need to get involved in this year if this is who you are and where you struggle.  And we’re going to map it out as best I can of some areas that you need to consider plugging in and getting involved in. 

 

But this week here’s what I wanted to come back around to.  Because sometimes as a soldier I get distracted, and sometimes as an athlete I cheat a little and sometimes as a farmer I think that the field will be alright tomorrow.  So regardless of what the plan is and how you desire to be, we’ve got to keep uppermost in our minds and our affections the gospel of Jesus Christ lest any of this become law.  That’s why Paul starts it the way he does.  Before he gets into the three-headed metaphor, he goes, “Find your strength as a soldier, find your strength as an athlete, find your strength as a farmer in the gospel of Jesus Christ.  And so I wanted to celebrate the cross with you today.  I wanted to celebrate the broken body and shed blood because if it’s not for the broken body and shed blood of Jesus on the cross, there is no pleasure of God in you.  If it’s not for the broken body and shed blood of Jesus Christ, there is no crown handed out.  If it’s not for the broken body and shed blood of Jesus Christ, then there is no fruit to be had.  All of our sins past, present and future are covered, and all the strength, mercy and grace we need for today to be all that God has asked us to be today comes from Him. 

 

So here’s what I want to do today.  We’re going to take communion together and then we’ll go out under that grace and mercy.  But what I want you to do as best you can is not think of the things I’ve said today as some ambiguous “we,” but that you would think about your own heart, your own life.  Are you single-minded?  Do you have that objective?  Is that your goal?  Is that what you’re after?  Are you playing by the rules?  Are you actively breaking the rules?  Are you the hard-working farmer or are you the farmer that sits on the couch and asks God to move the weeds?  And my prayer as I’ve prepared for this is especially for you men.  My prayer is that maybe finally your spirituality wouldn’t be Sunday morning.  I pray that maybe finally you would accept and walk in the responsibility that God gave you to set the tone in your home and even at work, to be the spirit filled man.  I’ve already said this, but I have no idea what the attraction of nominal Christianity.  It’s like being engaged: all the problems of marriage with none of the benefits.  I’ve never understood it. 

 

Let’s pray.  “Father, I thank You for our time together today.  My prayer is that the Scriptures would read us.  I pray against legalism and against religion, but I pray for a deep passion to pursue You and the courage for self evaluation and that we’d look for real, tangible evidence that any of it’s there.  I pray against the confusion that comes when the gospel is not preached clearly.  I pray against those who would tie their salvation to the fact that they’re not as crazy as they were in back in college.  I want to pray against church as a hobby and nominal faith.  I pray that maybe this year in Your mercy would stir up our hearts to you.  I pray that we might, like the soldier, have one objective:  to know You, to worship You and see sin’s power in our life destroyed.  I pray that we would be like the athlete, steadfast in our wisdom, submitting to Scripture and godly counsel on all things.  And I pray that we might be like the farmer who doesn’t just sit on his couch and want, but that we would be men and women who, as best we can, position ourselves under the waterfall of Your grace in the hopes that You would pour out on us in powerful ways.  I thank You that we’ll stumble about this year and Your love for us won’t change.  I thank You that we will outright fail and You’ll have no wrath for us.  I thank You that all of it was absorbed in the cross.  Will you burn the gospel into our hearts and minds so that we don’t get confused?  It’s for Your beautiful name.  Amen.” 