Let’s go to Acts 13, starting in verse 1.  “Now there were at Antioch, in the church that was there, prophets and teachers: Barnabas, and Simeon who was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.  While they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for Me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."  Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.  So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia and from there they sailed to Cyprus.”  Now these men and women are participating in an act of seeking the voice of God that plays itself out the exact same way so often in Scripture that I couldn’t count it all up before it was time to preach this.  These men and women are seeking the detailed voice of God for direction that cannot be found directly in Scripture.  They’re in a room and they’re going, “Where do we go?  Who do we send?  What’s next for us?  Who goes and who stays?  Who leads the church in Antioch?  Who goes down to Cyprus?...”  And they begin to seek the face of God in ways that cannot be answered in Scripture.  What I mean is they couldn’t go to the scrolls of Isaiah or Elijah, they couldn’t open up those writings and go, “Okay, it’s Paul and Barnabas and you’re headed to Cyprus.”  They couldn’t do that.  But they needed to know, and when men need to know outside of what Scripture teaches, they always do the same thing throughout Scripture.  They pray, they worship and they stop eating.  Isn’t that weird?  Well, food is a distraction.  Food can make you feel alright when you’re not alright, can’t it?  Tell me that a bad day can’t be put at ease with some hot fajitas from La Hacienda Ranch.  Tell me that a horrible afternoon can’t just be made better with a venti drip with double mocha.  Tell me that a bad afternoon can’t be offset with the taste of something to the mouth.  But what they’re doing is going, “No, what I’m hungry for is You.”  So they quit eating.  They pray, they fast and they worship to hear from God outside of Scripture. 

 

And this plays itself out hundreds of times in Scripture and in Christian history.  In fact, if you look at the men and women who participated in a “What do we do?  Let’s pray, fast and worship and God will tell us what to do,” it reads like the “Who’s Who” of the Bible.  Moses the law giver, Ester the queen, Anna the prophetess, Elijah the prophet, Daniel the seer, Paul the Apostle and even Jesus Himself, God in the flesh starts His ministry out with a forty day fast.  Can you imagine what I would like like after forty days of fasting?  Christ starts His whole ministry out not by some powerful miracle, not by commanding the world to obey Him, but rather He starts His whole ministry by going into the woods and fasting, praying and worshiping. 

 

If you begin to look at Christian history, again it begins to look like a “Who’s Who” of Christian history.  Martin Luther, John Calvin, John Knox, John Wesley, Jonathan Edwards, David Brainerd, Charles Finley and Pastor Tse who started the house movement in China years ago.  And these men all participated in this.  They needed to know something from God, they needed to hear something from God, it was outside of what Scripture could teach, so they sought Him with prayer, fasting and worship. 

 

Even historically it’s happened.  On February 5th, 1756, the French were about to invade England.  England did not have an army that could fight them off.  So the king of Britain at the time called the entire nation to a day of prayer, fasting and worship.  So on February 6th, there’s tons of writings that say there wasn’t a church building that wasn’t overflowing.  Now has anybody here been to Europe?  It’s pretty sad, all those empty cathedrals now, huh?  But there was a day where they were crammed filled with people, begging God to destroy the French...or at least distract them.  And it worked.  The French didn’t invade.  When men and women historically have needed to know from God and have not been able to find the details in Scripture, they find out by praying, fasting and worshiping.  And even for us, I’ve looked all over this thing.  There are several maps in the back, and I can’t find the map that talks about us.  I’ve got no Dallas in my map.  I’ve got Italy.  There’s Sinai twice, but no Dallas, no D/FW area.

 

So why am I telling you all this this morning?  Well because we find ourselves needing answers that can’t be found in Scripture.  We find ourselves as a community, as a church, as a body who gathers together and worships the living God needing answers that we can’t find in Scripture.  Let me give you an idea of what we’re talking about.  We’ve been doing a lot of research lately to try to figure out the trends of where we’re going numerically and financially.  This is what we’ve learned so far.  In the last two years, we have had over 5,000 first time visitors.  We are growing at a rate of over 70%, which means that although we started the 5:00 service three weeks ago, we’ll be adding the sixth service soon.  So here’s my question.  What do we do?  Do we go buy a bunch of land or do we not?  Do we contact a school and see if we can use their auditorium?  Do we do multi-site venues where each venue has a live worship band but we’re piping in the sermon that was recorded earlier?  Do we go into debt?  And if so, how much debt is acceptable debt?  What do we do?  Where do we go?  And listen, I’m telling you, I’ve looked all through here and there’s nothing about a plot of land anywhere for us.  There’s no insight into whether or not this is the direction we go.  So what do we do?  Because these are big decisions, aren’t they?  What do we do?  Because this changes the shape and form of who we are.  We’re used to being in a tiny room all packed together, all sweaty with elbows touching.  Are we supposed to build a bigger building or are we not?  I worry about these things because there is a way that seems right to man, but in the end everybody gets killed.  So what do we do?  Where do we go?

 

Well I think we have to take a cue from our forefathers, don’t we?  If biblically and historically men and women who have needed to hear details from God pressed into God with prayer and worship and fasting, if that has held true biblically and historically, should we believe that we’re any different in seeking the voice of God?  So here’s what I want to invite you to.  If you are a covenant member of this church, if you are a regular attender of this church, if you have just started coming recently and God has put it in your heart that you’re home, I want to invite you into something that we’re calling “Pursuit.”  This coming Friday, we want to encourage you to set aside that day for the pursuit of God, and we want to invite you and invite our body into a corporate fast.  Which means on Friday, we drink tons of water and eat no food.  Then that evening at 7:00 here at the church, we want to come together for prayer and worship and seek the face of God for what’s next for our family.  So let’s come together, let’s pray, let’s worship and let’s seek the face of God for our family lest we create Ishmael.

 

Now let me tell you why I’m grinning at this point in what I want to say.  If you’re a guest, let me tell you who we are.  The majority of this church is in the first two years of their Christianity.  It’s a very unique place.  And if they’re not that, then they’re maybe coming out what they saw as an abusive relationship where they felt really burned by a church or hurt by a church.  So a lot of the people in here are like, “You had me until the part where I can’t eat.  I get the whole prayer and worship thing.  You lost me at ‘Put the sandwich down.’  I’m going to need you to unpack that a little bit for me.  I’m going to need you to do some explaining, because I love me some food.”  The irony is when Jesus teaches about fasting, He says, “When you give...when you pray...when you fast...”  He assumes that it’s a part of our life anyway.  Just as simple as giving and praying, He throws fasting in there.  And I have heard a lot of sermons on money, I have heart a lot of sermons on prayer, but I don’t know that I’ve ever heard one on fasting.  And it’s weird, isn’t it?  It’s weird to go, “You want to know God deeply?  Quit eating.”  Well I don’t want to die.  I want direction.  I don’t want to starve to death; I just want to know where we’re going next.  What is this thing?  What is fasting?  Why do we do it?

 

Well let’s chat a little bit about that this morning.  If you have your Bibles, let’s go to Matthew 9, starting in verse 14.  Basically what’s about to happen here is John’s disciples are going to notice that the Pharisees fast and that they fast, but Jesus’ disciples don’t fast.  So they’re going to ask Him, “Why aren’t you guys fasting?”  And Jesus is going to explain it.  So let’s look at that together.  “Then the disciples of John came to Him, asking, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but Your disciples do not fast?"  And Jesus said to them, "The attendants of the bridegroom cannot mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them, can they? But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.  But no one puts a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment; for the patch pulls away from the garment, and a worse tear results.  Nor do people put new wine into old wineskins; otherwise the wineskins burst, and the wine pours out and the wineskins are ruined; but they put new wine into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved."”  So they come and they say, “Why are Your disciples not fasting?”  And Jesus says, “Because I’m here.  And grooms don’t mourn on their wedding day.”  If you’ve got a guy at his reception sobbing, we’ve got some issues that probably should have been handled in some pre-marital counseling.  A bride does not mourn at her reception.  She glows.  And He’s talking to the Jews who threw a party at weddings, I’m talking a two week blowout.  We do like an hour and a half, then cake.  They do this two week “Let’s shut down the shop and let’s get after it” party.  There are a lot of fathers in here whose daughters are engaged right now who are like, “Shhhh.  I’m already $20k in the hole, man.  You’re killing me.”  They threw this huge party.  And Jesus is going, “They don’t fast because I’m here.”  He’s saying, “If they need to know where they’re going, they just need to ask Me (and I answer them in this ambiguous parable that they can’t understand).”  Isn’t that the truth?  “If they need to know where we’re going, they need only to follow Me.  If they need to know what I meant by that, they simply need to ask.  If they want to get out of the boat and walk on water, they can hear My audible voice say, ‘Get on out and walk on the water.’  If they want to hug Me, they can touch Me in the flesh.  If they want to hear My voice, I’ll speak to them.  If they want Me to kiss their face, I will.  The Bridegroom is here.  But the Bridegroom will be taken away, and then they will fast.”

 

Maybe it’s better to explain it like this.  About four months ago, I did a sermon on communion, and we took communion that morning.  I said that communion is a little bit like my wedding ring.  This is just a ring.  It’s not powerful.  It’s not the “one ring to rule them all.”  That’s not this ring.  It’s just a ring.  And if I threw it on the ground and you picked it up, depending on your integrity level, you would take it to the office or hock it on eBay.  So to you, this ring holds no merit.  It’s not overly attractive.  It’s a very simple ring.  It holds no special value to you.  If I threw it out there and you picked it up, it’s just that.  It’s just a ring to you.  And the truth is it is just a ring, but it’s more than that to me, isn’t it?  It’s a ring, but it’s more than a ring.  It’s metal, but it’s more than just metal.  It is a consistent, constant reminder of the vow I made unto God to love my wife like He loves the church in that He gave His life for her regardless of her response or her behavior.  That’s the ring.  In the same way, communion is bread, but it’s more than bread.  It’s wine, but it’s more than wine.  When we partake in the Lord’s Supper, we are symbolically celebrating the fact that Christ was here.  He says, “This is My body.  Do this in remembrance of Me.  Remember I was once here.  I once walked the earth.  You could touch Me and hug Me and hold Me, and I will return.  So remember that I was once here.” 

 

And in the same way, just as communion represents and shows forth that Christ was once here, so is fasting the groaning that we know and experience because He is not here like He once was, but we have a promise of His return.  So Romans 8 says that we also as believers groan and long as Creation does for the return of Christ.  And so we fast because we want Him and we fast because there’s something in us that says that there’s deeper pastures and deeper waters.  We fast because we see that our families are not like they’re supposed to be.  We fast because we want to see people saved.  We fast because we’re weak.  We fast because we want more and we seek the Bridegroom because He is not here as He once was.  And just as communion is celebration that He once was, fasting is the celebration that He is not here as He once was but He will return.  We fast because the Bridegroom is gone.

 

I know I’m going to get an e-mail that explains to me how the Holy Spirit is Christ and He’s all over the world, and I absolutely agree with that.  My point would be this.  Go kiss Jesus’ face then.  “Well I can’t.  He’s not here.”  That’s my point.  He’s not here as He once was.  And although the Holy Spirit of God is actively speaking and ministering t His people, you and I cannot go face to face before Christ, ask a question and have Him answer us directly.  Unless you’re one of those cats who have heard the audible voice of Christ, in which case, you need to be wearing the face mic.  Because I haven’t heard the audible voice of Christ.  I don’t know I could handle it if He did.  I don’t know what I would do there.  Probably wet myself and black out.  But it’s a celebration that He will return but He’s not here right now and we need Him, we long for Him, we groan for Him, we want Him.  And we fast because the Bridegroom is not here. 

 

The second reason we fast is because fasting, more than any other discipline, will reveal what controls you.  I talked with my wife at length about this.  I’ll tell you how it hammers out in my life.  If for whatever reason I can’t sleep that night, I’ll start surfing through the channels.  And in the middle of it, I’ll begin to see some things in my soul that I don’t like and I’ll go grab the Doritos.  Or have any of you tried the Blue Bell ice cream  Moo-llennium Crunch?  I’ll just go to town on that stuff.  Isn’t it amazing that good things will act like lidocaine on a wound and numb us.  We’ve already talked about how on a crummy day food will help.  Tell me on a crummy day that your first instinct isn’t “Let me turn to God for prayer,” but rather, “Let me grab a cup of coffee or a piece of cake.”  That’s how it works itself out in me.  If I start seeing things that I don’t want to think about, let me busy myself.  What’s the best way to go?  Since I don’t have anything interesting to watch, Doritos or Moo-llennium Crunch.  My wife says that it’s new clothes for her.  “If the whole world is horrible, that shirt will make me feel alright for about two days.”  My wife will go, “If I get a new shirt or a new pair of pants, it will just all go away for a day or two.”  And good things, like lidocaine on a wound, will numb us to the reality of our heart. 

 

Why do you think we’re all so busy?  Success?  Please, that’s a pipe dream.  Most of you are walking in wealth that you could have never dreamed of when you were in college.  And yet you’re still working for wealth?  No, I think you’re working to quiet your soul.  And good things numb it.  Food food numbs it.  So fasting churns up our heart and lets us see who we are.  If you’re an angry person, I promise you by hour six, you’re going to be popping off and angry.  You can blame it on the fast, but it’s not the fast.  It’s who you really are coming out.  If you lack discipline and you’re lazy, watch how early in the day you justify a breaking.  Are you proud, lustful, bitter, unforgiving?  Watch how quickly those things get churned up when you quit comforting, lulling the Spirit of God in you to sleep.  That’s horrible, isn’t it?  If I just stopped the sermon right there, you’d be like, “I’m adding a meal on Friday if that’s what happens when I fast.” 

 

Well let me tell you why this is so important for us as a community.  Any place you are there’s a language that develops.  It doesn’t matter where you are or what you’re a part of, there is a language that develops.  And the language here at the Village is that we want our hearts to long for God and burn for God and be desperate for God in our hearts to hurt for Him and want Him.  Is that not our language?  Every sermon and even the songs we sing speak of the burning heart for God, a longing for God, an aching heart for God.  And that’s our language because we believe if you’re on that path, you’re on the path.  But where you’re indifferent, you’re not on the path.  Where you’re unmoved by Christ, you don’t know Him.  Where you’re indifferent to grace, you have not tasted grace.  So that’s our language.  And the dangerous part is you can begin to speak the language and know nothing of it in your heart.

 

Now let me tell you why fasting is such a beautiful discipline for those who seek to be transformed by God.  If you’re not careful in the Bible Belt, you can actually begin to believe that you’re alright.  You’re not a sinner.  You can point them out, but they’re not you.  And you can be part of a church and do the right things, and you can lose sight of the fact that you are very much a work in progress and very much still need to rest under the grace of Christ.  Fasting churns up what’s really inside of us.  And true worship and true brokenness before God is always laid upon the foundation of an understanding of sinfulness and depravity.  The better you feel about how good you are, the less chance that worship really exists.  And the more you understand your deep need for His grace and mercy, the more worship and prayer come out in humility and reverence and desperation.  So what happens in a fast is we begin to see who we are, we begin to see that we really do need Him.  “You know what?  I’m still angry...I don’t forgive...I’m still bitter...I’m lazy...”  And those things get churned up in us, so when it’s time to press into God, we press in and don’t just give Him lip service of, “Oh, we need You.  Come and speak to us.  Come and move in this place.”  But with broken hearts and right spirits, we come and say, “We truly are a mess.  Help us.  Don’t leave us to our sinful minds and our sinful ways.  Speak to us, whisper to us, move in us.”  And fasting enables the saint to honestly approach God.  So for those seeking truly to be transformed, this is wonderful news.  For the religious lost, this is probably something you don’t want to dabble in.

 

So we fast because the Bridegroom is not here as He once was, and we fast because it enables us to approach God honestly and sincerely in spirit and heart and not just use the right language with a heart that’s far from Him.  Because it’s one of the things the Bible says God despises.  And then there’s one more.  Go over to Matthew 6 with me.  I’m going to need to address something in this text that is going to come out pretty quickly, and then we’ll get to what I want to show you.  Starting in verse 16, “Whenever you fast, do not put on a gloomy face as the hypocrites do, for they neglect their appearance so that they will be noticed by men when they are fasting Truly I say to you, they have their reward in full.”  The Pharisees fasted two days a week.  They fasted on Tuesday and on Thursday.  Do you know why they fasted on those two days?  They were big market days.  People would come get their food for the next couple of days on Tuesday and Thursday.  They did that because of the position of the Sabbath in the week.  Those were the days they bought their groceries.  So there were more people in the market.  So when the most people were going to be in the market, the Pharisees would wake up and not shower, not shave, not put on deodorant, not comb their hair and they would walk around the market moaning and looking gloomy.  They would put on this overt religiosity.  And Jesus says, “Beware of practicing your hypocrisy before men to be noticed by them.”  Why?  Because you will be noticed by them.  The most dangerous part of hypocrisy is that it works.  You can put on all the external garb of godliness and have a hard, wicked heart, and men will praise you and speak highly of you and exalt you as a godly man, as a godly woman.  And it can be the most damning thing that ever happens to you.  Hypocrisy is dangerous because it works.  You want to do things for the approval of men?  You’re in a great state, right in the buckle of the Bible Belt.  Say the right things, wear the right things, learn the right rhetoric and you will be exalted all the days of your life, and you’re going to die and stand naked before God and have the fullness of your reward.  And that’s a terrifying idea.

 

Let’s look at this next part.  Verse 17, “But you, when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face so that your fasting will not be noticed by men, but by your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you.”  I want to talk about that reward, because it sounds kind of mercenary, but let me do this first.  If you’re kind of analytical in thinking, you should be doing this right now.  “Hey, this says to fast secretly, and you’ve just called us to a corporate fast altogether.  That’s not secretly.”  Okay.  This text is talking about motive and what the motive of your heart is.  There is a huge difference between fasting to be noticed and being noticed fasting.  We have plenty of biblical precedent for calling for a corporate fast.  In fact, the text we just read out of Acts 13 says that there was a group that had gathered to fast and pray and worship.  There were teachers and prophets and certain guys who weren’t any of those things all in a room together fasting and praying. 

 

So the question in this text is motive.  But why I wanted you to turn there is in the last couple of words.  “...your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you.”  Now I think we have to talk about that lest God become Santa Claus.  You cannot barter with God.  Because everything is His.  Have you ever heard the phrase, “Sixpence none the richer?”  It comes from C.S. Lewis telling a story of when his granddaughter comes up and asks for sixpence and he gives it to her.  She takes the sixpence and goes and buys him a gift and brings him the gift.  He’s sixpence none the richer because the sixpence was his.  You can’t barter with God because everything is His...including you.  You are His.  So for you to go, “I’ll do this if You do this,” He could be like, “I’ll make you do that anyway...or just kill you.  I can always do that.”  So you can’t barter with God.  And if you could, if you were even with God, you’d get hell.  You need God to be a step ahead.  You need Him to have more.  Because if He doesn’t have more than you, and you’ve broken even, that means you’ve sinned, He’s holy and you get hell.  So you don’t want to break even.  This is one game you want to lose to Him. 

 

So fasting isn’t, “I will fast, and You will make her fall in love with me.”  Fasting is not, “I will fast, and that check for $1 million will be coming around the bend.”  It’s not bartering.  We don’t fast to barter.  So what’s this reward?  It’s definitely not money because the very next verse says, “Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth,...”  So we know it’s not money.  You don’t get money for fasting.  The genuine heart of fasting is that we might see God and find Him, that we might hear from him and be able to walk in obedience.  So for the heart, if that is a core desire of the heart to hear God, to see God, then what’s the greatest reward that could be given to a heart that has that as its goal?  To hear, to see, to be spoken to.  In fact, in all of Scripture and every place I’ve looked in history, anytime a group of men and women fervently, sincerely humbled themselves before God through prayer, worship and fasting, God heard and responded.  I know of no text and no place where that is not so.  There is a text in Isaiah that discusses a fast that occurred in the nation of Israel where they came with impure motives and impure hearts, they did it strictly out of ritualism and God says, “I despise this thing and I should kill all of you.”  But anytime the heart is pure and comes before God, He speaks.

 

So let’s talk about Acts again if that’s true.  They fast, they pray, they worship.  God set a side Saul and Barnabas and sent them to Cyprus.  Do you know what comes out of Paul and Barnabas heading to Cyprus?  Thirteen books of the New Testament.  Does anybody have a favorite verse in 1 and 2 Corinthians?  “Love is patient, love is kind.”  Who didn’t have that read at their wedding?  “It does not envy, it does not boast, it is not proud.”  Do you know why that was written?  Because on that journey Paul founds a church in the city of Corinth and he writes them a letter later on.  Philippians 4:13, “I can do everything through him who gives me strength.”  Most of us have a mug with that on it.  We’ve got that t-shirt that says that with the eagle on the branch.  What about Colossians.  “He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. . .all things have been created through Him and for Him.”  That was written to the church at Colossae.  That’s what came, thirteen books and the world changed forever.  The gospel spread like fire through the ancient world.  It continued to be the dominant religion on planet Earth to this day. 

 

In fact, you sit in this room today because of this prayer and fasting.  That gospel spread through the generations until a group of Pilgrims who were persecuted in their homeland hopped on a boat and headed our way.  They landed, formed thirteen colonies, began to think it was unfair to be taxed without representation so they rebelled.  They rebelled and formed for themselves their own country.  Then a westward expansion happened and we get the United States as we know it.  You sit in this room today because of what was written, because of this missionary journey.  The world was changed.  He answers.

 

So should we suspect that He’s doing things differently now?  For the first 5000 years, He’s operated one way, but now since we really like food and there’s so much of it everywhere, that’s not how He’s going to operate anymore?  No.  But let me be real honest with you in this.  What if Friday rolls around and it’s me, Bleecker and a hundred of us?  What happens if you think that a date or a movie or some trip to see your parents takes precedent over us seeking the face of God for what’s next for us?  What happens if we’re confident in the ability of our leadership here to get us to the next place?  Don’t you know that confidence in anything but Christ is a death warrant?  What happens if Friday rolls around and we don’t come together as a family to seek His face?  What does that mean about who we are?  What does that mean about all the growth and all that’s happened here?  Is it counterfeit?  If things really stunk around here, I wouldn’t be worried at all.  When things get bad, people tend to be able to pray very well and fast very well and worship very well.  It’s when they’re good that things get dangerous.  And things are so good.  We’ve got no debt.  We take in plenty of money to run the operations of this church to pay your staff well and then put some in reserves for what’s coming next.  We’ve done a very good job of saving for whatever it is that is coming next.  People are getting saved.  We’ve almost baptized in every service this weekend.  Lives are being changed, people are growing.  May we not find ourselves relaxing.  May we not find our confidence in leadership or some preacher.  May we seek Him with our whole hearts.  May we be hungry enough to not eat.  So to that end, I’ll be praying this weekend.

 

Let’s pray.  “Father, we want to be a part of eternal things.  We don’t want our efforts or our money or our time to go into some building at the expense of Your kingdom and at the expense of the missional mindset of our body.  Will You lead us?  Will You guide us?  I pray that Your Word today finds itself falling on good soil.  I pray that at 7:00 on Friday night, this place would be crammed filled with men and women crying out for wisdom.”  