I want to read for you, a passage of Scripture out of Luke 4.  And I want to read this to you as a warning before we even get started.  In Luke 4, Christ has gone to the temple, and He has opened up a scroll, and He has begun to read the scroll, and He reads through the scroll.  And then He closes the scroll and He then says in verse 21 this, “And He began to say to them, "Today this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing." And all were speaking well of Him, and wondering at the gracious words which were falling from His lips; and they were saying, "Is this not Joseph's son?" And He said to them, "No doubt you will quote this proverb to Me, 'Physician, heal yourself! Whatever we heard was done at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well.”  And so, here's the challenge to Christ.  Christ reads a messianic prophecy, closes the scroll and says, “This is fulfilled.  So, the people then begin to go, “How can this be?  Show us something.  Show us the miraculous sign.”  That's what's going on here.  “Show us some kind of sign.  Show us some kind of glimpse of Your power.  Show us that this is true about You.  Give us what we want.  Give us the sign.  Now, what Christ is about to say enrages them.  So, let's look.  Verse 24, “And He said, "Truly I say to you, no prophet is welcome in his hometown.”  Now listen to the next three verses, because they're very pertinent to where we're going tonight.  “But I say to you in truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three years and six months, when a great famine came over all the land; and yet Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.”  And so, here's Christ's point.  They're saying to Him, “Do a miracle for us.  Do something mighty for us.  We've heard what You've done in Capernaum.  Show us the same kind of things.  Show us the same kind of signs.”  And Christ is going to begin to quote Scripture to them again and remind them that there was a widow that Elijah went to who had a little bit of oil, or enough oil and enough flour to make cake enough for her and her son and Elijah.  But if she made it, then it was all going to be gone and they were all going to starve to death like everyone else that was around them.  And so, Jesus here is quoting Scripture to them.  He's quoting the Old Testament.  And He goes, “Was there not one widow, one, that I chose to deliver out of that famine?”  His thing is, “There are many widows that died during that famine.  I decided to provide for the one.  I decided to give bread to the one”  Now, He's going to use another example, “And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian.”  And so now, here's the point again.  The point again is, “All these lepers, all these people hurt, all these people walking around with disease, and I healed one.  I just healed one”  And so, Christ is beginning to quote Scripture to them about how it's God that decides what He does and doesn't do and that He is not bound, and it infuriates people.  Now, keep in mind, all that Jesus did here was just quote Scripture to them.  All that just happened, was Christ took narratives that everyone in the room would have known, he took stories that everybody in that room had read or heard all the days of their lives and He just reminded them of the stories.  And at the reading of the Word of God to them, look at their response, “And all the people in the synagogue were filled with rage as they heard these things; and they got up and drove Him out of the city, and led Him to the brow of the hill on which their city had been built, in order to throw Him down the cliff. But passing through their midst, He went His way.”  I love that, “Grab Him! You got Him? No, I don't.  Okay, where did He go?”  And this is what happened here in this instance. 

 

I read this as a warning that tonight, all I am going to do to you is read you Scripture.  We are taught some things in our faith, some of which hold no biblical merit whatsoever, some that hold a little biblical merit.  Most of us live our lives never examining Scripture in light of the things that disagree with where our theology is at.  We dismiss the texts altogether or we ignore them.  An example I'll give for you is I have never in twelve years of being in churches heard anyone preach on Romans 9.  Never heard a sermon on it.  Never heard anyone preach “Jacob I loved and Esau I hated from before they were born”  Never heard anyone preach a sermon on that.  I've never even heard anyone address it.  I am in four years of bible college (I stretched that to around seven)...but I am in four years of bible college and even in the Pauline Epistles, we don't get into Romans 9-11.  So even in a bible college, a text that is very weighty and very difficult is completely ignored. 

 

Now, when I accept Christ, I am very passionate about this God who just saved me.  And immediately, I begin to learn some things or be taught some things.  And one of those things was that God is dependent on you and me for our salvation...that you and I have ultimate free will.  And what God does is, He watches what we do, and He tries to woo for us a little bit, and He has made a way for us, but that's all He's done.  He's made a way for our salvation, He's made a way for good things to happen to us, He's made a way for the goodness of God to be seen and embraced and worshiped, but God does not do anything beyond that.  And the texts that are given to support that idea are these three texts, and if it's not these three texts, it's texts just like them.  And here are the three biggies:  1 Timothy 2:3-4 says this, “This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth [in Him].”  That's a big one.  Anytime you get into a conversation with somebody about the extent of God's sovereignty, (nobody argues sovereignty, everybody believes in sovereignty, the question is the extent of the the sovereignty of God) they're going to bring up 1 Timothy.  They're also going to bring up 2 Peter 3:9.  Here's another one, “The Lord is not slow about His promise, as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing for any to perish but for all to come to repentance.”  And then Ezekiel 18:23 says this, “Do I have any pleasure in the death of the wicked," declares the Lord GOD, "rather than that [all men] he should turn from  [wicked] ways and live?”  And these are what's called, in seminaries, as the Arminian pillars.  These are the texts in which the Arminian ideology or the ideology that says, “Man is not the pawn, but rather the queen on the chess board.”  These are the texts that are used. 

 

Now, I'm taught that, not only taught it, but I embrace it.  I embrace it.  Surely, God is loving like that.  Surely, God does things like that, and I embrace it.  I'm taught in Sunday school, I'm taught it in Bible study, I'm taught it when I ask questions about texts that I see that don't match up, but what began to happen to me over a period of time is, I begin to come across a slew, and I do mean a slew, of Scripture.  You're going to get over seventy passages of Scripture tonight.  I'm not read all of them, but I'm going to give you over seventy passages of Scripture tonight where God seeming works against what He just calls “His will.”  And so, we got a God who says, “I desire that all men should come to repentance” and then a God who actively works against all men repenting.  And so, I didn't know what to do with it.  Not only that, I got God killing Jesus in the Bible, I've got God deciding to save some people not deciding to save others.  I'll tell you one that got me early on, the fact that King David commits murder and adultery, doesn't come clean about it.  He gets straight up busted.  Remember the story?  He got the prophet who comes in and goes “Hey, I got a story to tell you, King David.”  He's like, “Oh, I love stories.  Tell me it.”  And this is a paraphrase, this is how it reads in “The Bible: The Re-mix” but he says, you've got two men, one man owns a thousand sheep, one man owns a lamb.  The man who owns a thousand sheep takes the lamb and slaughters it and steals from the guy and beats him up, whatever.  And David goes “Bring that man to me.  We will kill this man.  We will punish this man.”  And the prophet goes, “You're the man”......tears, finally broken.  So, David didn't come clean.  He gets busted publicly, then comes clean.  He asks God for forgiveness, and what does God say? “Yes, you're forgiven.” Okay, so I read that story and I'm going, “Oh man, God is good.”  And then I'm flipping through the book of Acts.  And it just so happens that this man and wife sell a big plot of land and get a bunch of money for it.  They give 80% of it or so, a very large hunk of it and say it's 100%.  So, God kills them.  Now, does that seem a little inconsistent to you?  Because it sure did to me, early on.  I'm going, “So David gets 'Okay, you're forgiven'” and here, these people get killed for giving a huge lump of money to the early church.  And so there were some inconsistencies in Scripture, in my mind.  And we're going to go through them. 

 

I want to show you an illustration of two wills in God.  I want to show you, in Scripture, that God seems to be active in some things that we don't want to say God is active in.  The first illustration of the two wills of God is found in the death of Christ.  And I want to read these texts to you.  You won't be a stranger to them if you are a member of our church or have been attending here for any length of time at all.  The first one is found in Acts 2 starting in verse 22.  And here's what it says, “Men of Israel, listen to these words: Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through Him in your midst, just as you yourselves know-- this Man, delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put Him to death.”  And so now, you've got a predetermined, predestined plan of God to kill Christ.  And so, what we want to do then is step back and go, “Okay, God predestined it, but man did it.  Man carried it out.”  Now, flip over to Acts 4, starting in verse 27.  It says this, “For truly in this city there were gathered together against Your holy servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, to do whatever Your hand and Your purpose predestined to occur.”  And so now, even this act of godless men, even those of us who would want to go, “No, no, no.  It wasn't God who killed Jesus.  God doesn't want to murder people.  God doesn't want to murder innocent blood.  That is not what God does.”  We have, now, twice in the New Testament a biblical confession that it was God working through men to kill Jesus.  It was not the devil working through men to kill Jesus; it was God working through men to kill Christ.  And then, one of the things I thought rather peculiar early on in my faith was the Isaiah 53 take on it, where you're going to find out that, not only did God kill Jesus, but it brought Him pleasure to do so.  It brought Him pleasure.  Here we go in Isaiah 53 starting verse 4, “Surely our griefs He Himself bore, and our sorrows He carried; Yet we ourselves esteemed Him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. but He was pierced through for our transgressions, he was crushed for our iniquities; The chastening for our well-being fell upon Him, and by His scourging we are healed. All of us like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way; But the LORD has caused the iniquity of us all to fall on Him. He was oppressed and He was afflicted, yet He did not open His mouth; Like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that is silent before its shearers, so He did not open His mouth. By oppression and judgment He was taken away....” skipping to verse 10, “But the LORD was pleased to crush Him.”  So it brought pleasure to God to crush the Son.  And that was the first problems I had with the character of God that I had been taught and the character of God that I see in the Bible in the death of Christ.  We got a guy who does not spill innocent blood, a God who does not want to kill innocents and then here He is, actively working through men to kill innocent blood.  And so, what ends up happening at this point is, everyone wants to take a step back from it and go, “It's Christ!  Come on.  It's Jesus.  Of course God's involved in that.  That was the plan from day one.  You read earlier tonight in prayer meeting, Genesis 1 “Shall we make man in our own image?”  A conversation between the Son, the Spirit and God.  And even then, this was going to happen.  But it was Christ; it's not a consistent, all-the-time thing.”  Well okay, let's go to the next.

 

There are two things in particular I want you too see in these texts.  Revelation 17:16-17 says this (now I want you to listen to this one, because this one...I had to read it about eight times than ask my pastor about it), “And the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the harlot and will make her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh and will burn her up with fire.”  So what's happening here, is you got the ten kings raising up, about to do battle with the church.  Now I want you to hear this. “For God has put it in their hearts to execute His purpose by having a common purpose, and by giving their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God will be fulfilled.”  Now, if you don't know the context, let me put it in a context for you.  What we're reading is the beginning of the war against the lamb, and God has put it in the heart of these kings to make war against the lamb.  Now doesn't that strike you as a little odd, that God is putting it in the hearts of people to war against Himself?  It seems strange, and then there's 2 Thessalonians 2:8-13.  This is probably one that bothered me the most.  “Then that lawless one will be revealed whom the Lord will slay with the breath of His mouth and bring to an end by the appearance of His coming; that is, the one whose coming is in accord with the activity of Satan, with all power and signs and false wonders, and with all the deception of wickedness for those who perish, because they did not receive the love of the truth so as to be saved.”  Now listen to this next verse.  “For this reason God will send upon them a deluding influence so that they will believe what is false, in order that they all may be judged who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in wickedness.”  Now, that sure doesn't sound like a “I desire that no man should perish” God to me.  This is guy who goes, “Alright, I'm going to harden your heart.  Not only that, I'm going to deceive you.  I'm going to give the beast signs and wonders that are so powerful, that you're deceived and you fall away.”  Now that's a pretty amazing text to me. 

 

Now all I'm trying to do is give you some illustrations of the two wills of God right now. Okay? Another one that becomes very debated, because people only want to go to Romans 9 (I'm not even going to mention Romans 9 here) is the hardening work of God.  And that is the activity of God to harden a man's heart, so he will not respond to God.  Let me give you a whole slew of example on this one.  The hardening of Pharaoh's heart in Exodus 8:1 & 4:21.  God hardens Pharaoh's heart so that He might destroy him.  He said, “Pharaoh's not going to glory over Me.  He's not going to glory over Me, so I'm going to harden his heart, he's going to say 'no,' and I'm going to destroy him.”  And so, what people want to say then, at that point, is, “Well, God let him say, 'no' a couple of times before God hardened his heart.”  I'll give you that one. 

 

Now you're not going to have that one on the rest of these.  Sihon the king of Heshbon in Deuteronomy 2:30.  What basically has happened is like when Joshua sends out a flag of peace and says, “If you let us pass through your land, we won't fight you.”  And God hardens Sihon's heart so that he might say “no” so that God could destroy him.  Destroy everything about him, from women and children to oxen and goats and to have it all burned and destroyed.  That's what happens there.  The cities that Joshua fought, they begin to the pattern that we see in Deuteronomy.  And the pattern that we see is, a peace offering is sent, “Let us pass through and we won't destroy you,” and God hardens each king's heart and has the city destroyed.  In Romans 11:7-9, the nation of Israel has it's heart hardened by God.  He's not going to let Israel understand.  I am not making a modern statement about the Jews either.  I'm telling you that we have, in our Bible, the apostle Paul saying that the time of the Jews has been sealed off until the time of the Gentiles has been complete.  You have got the nation of Israel as a whole not being able to hear, not being able to comprehend, not being able to grasp the gospel of Christ. 

 

Jesus' parables... you know when you get saved, everyone gives you the gospels or the book of James.  That's what everybody gives you when you get saved.  I'm reading the gospels and in Mark 4, the disciples walk up to Jesus and ask him why He's talking in parables.  Remember the story?  They walk up to Christ and they go, “Hey, You're telling these stories and nobody knows what You're talking about.  Why are you telling stories?”  Now, Jesus' response, it was baffling to me.  “So that they would be ever seeing, but not understanding.”  What?  Jesus just said, “I'm talking in parables so they won't understand.”  “What do you mean they won't understand?  You're here to proclaim the good news!” “I know.”  “Huh?”  Everyone gives the disciples a bad shake, I mean, I'd be confused out of my mind right now too.  “Why are you telling stories up there?”  “So that nobody in the crowd understands me.”  “Okay, we don't quite understand the whole Messiah thing as of yet.  I don't know how this helps us yet.”  But this is what Christ says He's doing.  “I'm speaking in parables so that they will not understand.”  It's the hardening work of God.  The divine hardening is part of an overarching plan involving the Jews and the Gentiles in Romans 11:25-26.  That's what I just quoted to you.  “The time of the Jews is sealed off.”  That does not mean the Jews are not going to be saved; that just means that you can bet that there will not be a grand revival among the Jews until the time of Gentiles is complete. Does that mean that no more Gentiles are going to get saved?  No, it does not.  It just means, on a whole, there is an activity of God that is increased as opposed to the other area.

 

Now, here's a big one.  And it's so unbelievable to me that I wanted to put it down, so you could see it concerning Esau, in Hebrews 12:16-17.  Now, whether or not this is talking about salvation is of no consequence to me, because it's still here.  And here's what it says, “[Let] there be no immoral or godless person like Esau, who sold his own birthright for a single meal. For you know that even afterwards, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected...”  Now listen to this next part, “...for he found no place for repentance, though he sought for it with tears.”  So God's not granting him repentance even though he's seeking it with tears?  Now that's not the God I was taught about in Sunday school.  That does not make sense to me. 

 

Let me tell you, the first part of this is very, very weighty, and the second part is very, very weighty.  So you have that to look forward to.  God's right to restrain evil and His will not to.  And we talked a little about that, and let me read one of my favorite proverbs come election time.  Proverbs 21, starting in verse 1 says this, “The king's heart is like channels of water in the hand of the LORD; He turns it wherever He wishes.”  I love that text, man.  Kings, all of them, give me any ruler of every country, they are like a channel in the Lord's hands.  He'll turn them wherever He wants them to go.  So, keep in mind what that must mean for God's control over both evil and good in the nations.  Now, I'm not telling you that God is actively involved in evil, because He's not, but we'll explain that also momentarily.  One of my favorite stories about God's right to restrain evil is found in the story of Abraham, Sarah and Abimelech in Genesis 20.  Everybody should know this story.  What happens is, that Abimelech, who's a king, finds Sarah to be pretty hot.  That's modern language; that's not how it's going to read in your Bible.  So, Abraham pulls his girl aside and says, “Hey, listen.  This guy thinks you're cute and he's going to kill me and take you.  So let's tell him...” And I would have loved to be at this dinner.  Guys have you had that dinner with your wife, where you had to talk about something.  Alright, here we go, “Why don't we call you my sister?  He'll take you into his harem, and we'll survive.”  The funny thing about his plan is that there is no exit scheme.  I mean, his plan is dumb.  It's not well thought through.  He doesn't say, “..and then we'll sneak away.”  He just goes, “Hey, let's tell him you're my sister.”  And so, Abimelech takes her, Sarah, as his wife, but he doesn't sleep with her the first night.  He just calls her into his harem, you know, he's got hundreds of wives.  He puts her in the harem, he'll get to her later.  And God comes in the middle of the night to Abimelech in a dream and says this, “I will not let you sin against Me.”  So, Abimelech wakes up the next morning and grabs a hold of Abraham and goes, “Are you mad?”  Actually, what happened is God came him in a dream and says, “Hey, I'm going to destroy your whole country....every bit of it.”  And Abimelech goes, “What have I done against the most high God?”  “Well, you're sleeping with Abraham's wife.”  “I am not...who?  Abraham's got a wife?  He said it was his sister.”  “Yup, that's why I'm here.  I'm not going to let you sin against me.”  And I don't know what you're doing in your computer right now, but you just had God intervene and tell a man, he can't sin.  You just had God show up in a man's bedroom and say, “No, I don't think I'm going to let you sin against Me today.”  And he doesn't.  You see God's right to restrain evil?  He could have left that alone.  He sure leaves a lot of other stuff alone.  He sure left September 11th alone.  Are you telling me He couldn't have stopped that?  He easily could have stopped that.  Easily, just like this, God could have stopped a thousand different things that we look at as horrific or evil. 

 

And so, you've got God, who has a right to restrain evil and you've got a God who, at times, chooses not to restrain that evil.  And let me give you an example.  Eli's sons, in 1 Samuel 2:22-25, are very wicked boys.  But Eli is begging God for them, “Save my sons.  Don't kill my sons.”  And finally, God goes, “No, I'm going to kill both of them.”  The bible puts it this way, “The LORD desired to put them to death.”  So, God's going, “No, I'm going to kill them.  It's what I want to do.”  So, you've got yet another example of certain unrighteous behavior in Scripture being simply and  merely forgiven and others being punishable by death.  And then, in Romans 1:22-28, you see that God does not restrain evil, but rather gives people over to it.  We've talked about Romans 1 a bunch, so I don't feel like I need to to go there. 

 

Now, I could give you a bunch more examples, but that gives you a general feel of this stretch in Scripture about God's sovereignty over all things and man's supposed free will.  And so, what's happening here?  What's happening in this tension in Scripture?  What's going on with God saying, He desires that all men repent and Him seemingly working against that?  One of two things is true.  Here are the two things; there's not a third.  If there is a third thing that could be happening here, please e-mail me, but there is only two.  And here's what it is.  There is something more powerful than God in the universe that is usurping His will that all men should be saved.  If you are an Arminianist, if you believe in the free will of man, you believe this.  You believe that what is more powerful than God in the universe is the choice he gave you.  But that is not enough on God, because it is God who gave you the choice and therefore, limited His own power.  That's the doctrine.  The doctrine and belief system is wrapped around God removing His own power and placing His own power in you to decide the fate of a thousand different points of things.  And so, if you have embraced, fully, the free will of man, this is where you land.  Millions of Evangelicals do.  I'm not saying that if you believe in that, you're lost.  I'm just saying that's where you land. You think that there is something more powerful than God, even if that means God limited Himself.  That's where most Arminianists want to go.  They want to say, “God limited Himself.  That doesn't rob Him.” 

 

Or the second one, here's where I land.  There is a greater will in God that supersedes his desire that all men repent and be saved.  Let me try to explain greater will.  My daughter's starting to take steps.  She's starting to walk around.  She's also getting really ornery.  What I mean by that is, she's starting to know what “no” means and she doesn't like it at all.  And there is nothing in me, it is not my will to spank or bring pain onto my daughter.  I don't want to do it.  I don't will to do it.  I want no part of it.  I've got a great deal at the house right now.  Mom's there all of the day.  She's the one who has to go “no” all day.  Then I come home and she's like “yea!”  I'm the fun one, alright.  And so I love my job in the house right now.  And that's going to change too, I'm sure as she gets older.  But there have been times where I have had to smack her.  Although it is not my will to physically bring a little pain on my daughter to teach, I'm going to do it because there's a greater will in me that knows that joy comes through obedience.  Or even better than that, that you can get killed if you run out into the street...that you are going to the hospital if you pull the iron down on top of yourself.  So, although there is a will in me that say, “I never want to make my daughter cry,” there is a greater will in me that knows, sometimes I'm going to have to make my daughter cry.  Do you understand on the two wills? 

 

So, whats God's greater will? God's greater will is what the books about, the Bible.  God's greater will is His glory.  From Genesis to Revelation, God is about Himself.  God is about God's glory.  This is an inescapable fact of Scripture.  I have put around twenty four scriptures here.  I could remove all twenty four of these and replace them with twenty four more that say the same exact thing.  This is how saturated the Scripture is in this idea.  So, let's go through just a couple of them.  Romans 4:20-21 is concerning the call of Abraham and says that he grew strong in his faith so that he might give glory to God.  Ezekiel 20:5-9 is answering the question of why God did not destroy Israel in the desert.  And God says that He did not destroy Israel in the desert for the sake of His name.  “For the sake of My name I delay My wrath.  I'm not destroying you because it would make Me look bad.  You're My chosen people.  I destroy you, I become a mockery among the nations.  So I'm going to let you grow, and I'm going to have a remnant among you, and then I'm going to destroy you.  Alright?”  That's what's happening here in Ezekiel.  In Psalm 106:6-8, listen to this, “He saved them for the sake of His name, that He might make His power known.”  So He didn't save you for you; He saved you for Him.  Let's keep reading.  Exodus 14:4 & 8 talk about Pharaoh's heart being hardened for the glory of God.  1 Samuel 12:19-23 talks about the beginning of the monarchy and that God would show forth His glory and them choosing a man king over Him.  Psalm 25:11, “For Your name's sake, O LORD, pardon my iniquity, for it is great.”  Psalm 23:3 “He guides me in the paths of righteousness for His name's sake.” 1 Kings 8:41-45, Solomon's dedication of the temple was for the glory of God.  2 Samuel 7:23, why Israel was great; Israel was great so that God might make known His glory.  Isaiah 48:9-11, once again is why God did not destroy Israel, and in this text, you're going to see it again, “How could I let my name be defamed among the nations, “[it is] for the sake of My name I delay My wrath.”  Malachi 2:2, He's killing some priests, because they do not lay it in their hearts to give glory His name.  John 17:4, John 7:18, John 4:34 talks about Jesus' life and ministry being about the glory of God.  John 12:27-28 is about Jesus' death.  Remember His prayer?  “Father, glorify Your name.” Ephesians 1:3-6, why we were saved.  We were saved according to the predestined plan of God to the praise of His glorious grace.  1 Corinthians 10:31, 1 Peter 4:11, Matthew 5:16 all address the Christian life.  1 Corinthians 10:31 is the big one.  What's that say?  “Whether, then, you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.”  2 Thessalonians 1:9-10 is talking about the second coming, it will be fore the glory of God.  And Revelation 21:23, the consummation of all things for the glory of God.  And so, you have got a God who is not about man, He is about God.  And that's good news for us.  And I know that's hard to believe, but that's good news for us.  But God is for God, and that is the greatest news in the universe.  And so, the conclusion is this. We may conclude that  the chief end of God is to glorify God and enjoy Himself forever.  He stands as supreme at the center of His own affection.  For that very reason, He is self sufficient and an inexhaustible fountain of grace. 

 

Now, here's what we've got to do, and it's going to bring us to the last page.  Okay then, if God's for God, and He's got a greater will of His glory...and if you still don't understand that, let me try to explain it a little more with word pictures.  Word pictures are really hard when it comes to something as complex as sovereignty.  You know what tastes good, because you have tasted what is bad.  And you know what is pretty, because you have seen ugly.  You know what smells bad, because you have smelled good or normal even.  In the same way, is there grace, is there mercy if justice and wrath do not exist?  God's people don't know how to praise if we have not been saved from something.  Does that make sense?  And so, there is a picture there of both His wrath and His mercy, both His grace and His justice and this is why all men are not going to be saved.  Now, here's our conclusion.  How does this work?  If this is the truth, how does it work?  Justification.  Justification is salvation.  That's what it is, how you become justified in the sight of God in a moment.  Justification is an act of God and God alone.  Here are some texts to support that.  There are a bunch more more than this, but I just put those up.  Romans 9:6-24, in this he's going to say, it does not depend on man's desire nor his effort, but the grace and mercy of God.  “Jacob I loved, Esau I hated...” even from the womb.  And then even in this text, when people start going, “Well, that doesn't sound fair,” Paul's going to say, “Hey, you're the pot.  Who's the pot to question the potter at what's fair?”  To try to interpret Paul in modern language, you're assuming your salvation is fair.  In a statement that would say that God is unjust, and God is not fair in some going to hell, you have then said that what is fair, is your salvation.  But nobody's ever complained, no one I have ever heard of has ever complained or railed against the unfair God that saved your soul.  “Come to Me, My child”  “Oh, that's just not fair.  Redemption, life, peace, joy...that ain't right man.  Nuh uh, that doesn't sound like the God I know.”  And so, the argument that this would be unfair carries with it, the preset idea that what is fair is everyone's salvation.  When in reality, if we get fair, we get hell...all of us.  If what's happening in the universe has to do with fair, then we all go to hell guys.  We don't want fair.  Please God, be unfair. And be unfair to me.  Michael, write that song, “Be Unfair to Me.”  John 6:44 says, “No one comes to me unless the Father who sent Me draws him.” Now, that isn't Paul, that's Christ Himself.  Ephesian 3:1-6, Ephesians 2:1-10, Romans 8:28-30 are going to say the same thing.  You are dead in your trespasses.  You cannot save yourself.  You can not decide to be saved.  There is an effectual call of God that hits the human soul and you can't say no to it.  And I'm not telling you that God forces people to love Him.  He doesn't have to, He's God.  He simply reveals Himself.  That's all He's got to do.  He's just got to show who He is, and men don't go “Hmmm, let me toss that around in my mind.  Maybe I will, maybe I won't.”  God reveals who He is and men long for Him. 

 

Now, sanctification.  Sanctification is the process of growing in Christ after we are justified.  Sanctification is a progressive work of God and man that makes us more and more free from sin and more like Christ in our actual lives.  But this, too, ties back to the grace of God.  Philippians 1:6, “He who began the good work will be faithful to complete it.”  So, who began and completed the work?  The funny thing about that text that's all about you, is it's got nothing to do with you.  Isn't that a pretty amazing text?  A text that's all about you has nothing to do with you.  “He who began it will be faithful to complete it.”  And then, one of my favorites is found in Hebrews 6:1-4.  This Scripture has so impacted my prayer life, because of what it says.  It says, “Let us leave the elementary teachings of Christ and press on to maturity, and only if God is willing, will we do so.”  And so, a big part of some of my prayers are, “Please, God be willing that I might deepen in You and know You more and taste You more and experience You more.  Be willing sweet God.”  And I want to position myself...here's where my role in sanctification comes in...I want to position myself for God to touch me and move in me and work in me.  And so, I read my Bible every morning, not because I have to, but because I get with great expectation that the Creator of the universe might just visit me.  And hey, does he visit me every morning in ways that stir me so much that I can hardly survive?  No.  I wish.  I wish that every time I opened up the word I would hear the angels in heaven going “Oooohhhh,” and the application of the text would just come out and stir in me.  And I would have to come to the office with a veil over my face to not scare off our staff because my face would be glowing.  That's not how it happens.  But I get in the Word every morning with the hopes that God's going to show up.  Not because I'm trying to earn His love, but because I hope He might meet me there.  I pray that He might grow me there.  You know what?  You can go months and not experience this ecstatic nearness of God that overwhelms you and then wake up after months and find out that He's been growing you the whole time and you didn't even realize it.  You'll respond to somebody in a way that you would have never responded outside of the love of Christ, and you'll go, “You know what?  He is growing me...not like I want Him to.  I want, just like Peter and the rest of the crew who just doesn't want to stay on the mountain.  I want to just build there tabernacle there and never go outside.”  That's not the call. 

 

Alright, let me answer some questions that are commonly asked when it comes to this belief system.  And then I'll get into the fruit is of believing this.  Here's the one I've always heard...the two, the two biggies.  “If God is sovereign over all things, why are we praying?”  Great question.  My question is this, “If He's not, why are you praying?  What are you asking God to do?  If it's ultimately up to a man's decision, who has already heard the gospel and done nothing with it, what exactly are you asking God to do?  If God answers your prayer, does He not become a liar, because He gave men free will and now has violated it by interfering?”  My question is, “What are you praying for?”  “Please God, be sovereign, because then You're all-powerful and You can help.  Please tell me that we have not been left to our own sinful idiocy.  Please tell me He has not put it into the losts' minds to have to make this choice.”  Sinners will never ever ever ever choose Christ!  They never will.  They're dead in their trespasses in sins.  Dead men don't make moves.  They don't make decisions.  They definitely don't make the right ones.  There's a way that seems right to man; it leads to death.  What are you praying for?  “Please God, be sovereign, because a sovereign God can save my dad.”  Because, my dad, as lost and as dark as he was will never choose Christ.  He had heard about Him for years and said, “No, no, no, no, no.”  And revival after revival after revival after revival and tapes and magazines and everything my mom throws at him, “No, no, no, no, no.”  Nobody talking to him, effectual call of God gos out from heaven, through a series of circumstances and my dad's blubbering at 3:00 in the morning and crying out for Christ.  Thank God, He's sovereign.  And listen, I was confused early on about the whole prayer deal.  Here it is, “Free will, free will, free will, free will...” and I'm going, “Okay, so what am I praying for then?”  Michael Bleecker got saved five, six years ago.  Michael made his choice.  It was drugs and partying.  That was his choice.  That's what he did.  A darkened mind doesn't choose light.  The Bible says dark hates light.  It hates the light because it gets exposed in it. So, I don't understand the “why do we pray?” argument.  If anything, I want to ask people who, full on, embrace the absolute free will of human beings, “What are you asking for?  What are you asking God to do?  Are you asking God to violate your very belief system?”

 

Then, here's the other big one.  And this is because of what historically has been called “Hyper-Calvinism” and that is “Why do we do missions then?  Why do we tell people about Christ?  I mean, if He's going to call unto Himself who He wants to call unto Himself, why don't we just sit on the couch and let it happen?  I mean, evangelism isn't comfortable at first.  It's really not.  It gets awkward sometimes.  It gets confusing.  You get asked stuff you don't know how to answer.  It definitely ain't cool.  It definitely doesn't lock you up in the office as the cool guy, the guy everybody wants to hang out with.  That's not what happens in the world.  So, if God's sovereign, He just chooses, why are we thinking of heading to China?  Why are we heading to Mexico?  Why are we doing this if God chooses?”  Could it be that evangelism has more to do with you and your relationship with God than it has to do with the salvation of the recipient of the gospel?  Could it be that what God has done is this, “Hey, I'm going to do something over there.  You wanna come play?  Do you wanna come play with Me?  You want to know Me more?  You want to be with me?  I'm saving Carl this week.  Do you want to come?  You want to walk with Me?  I am in the process of wooing Mike Cheeves away from cocaine.  You want to come with Me on that?”  And so, we go.  We're His mouth, we're His hands, we're His feet.  And Mike Cheeves, and Bleecker and Carl they come to know Christ, they believe and what does that do to us?  I mean, what does that stir in us?  How much easier it is to sing “How marvelous, how wonderful...” on the Sunday morning after God used our retched, hypocritical, broken, lazy souls to bring somebody into the kingdom of God.  Now, that's a good time.  Could it be God inviting us to play?  I have found a growing confidence in me as I grow older that when God overwhelms me with a burden for someone to begin to walk in confidence that they will be saved.  I don't know how long.  Do you ever wonder why you don't burden for everybody?  Now, I don't want any lost person to go to hell.  I don't.  But at the same time, I don't weep for all of them either.  But there are certain ones who I cross paths with who, for some reason, God so overwhelms me with them that I can hardly stand it.  And so, I pray and I hurt and I so want it and I'm begging God to stretch and grab and force.  I'll pray it, “Force him. Reveal Yourself to him.  Let him see You.  Do it in a way that nobody gets any glory.  Just let him look at the lake and go, 'I need Christ.' Save him.”  And when God puts that on me, I begin to, as I get older...you know what ten years from now I may be going, “You know, maybe we shouldn't  do that.”  But right now, there's a strong confidence in me that...I've even said to a couple of guys, I'm walking with now, “Hey, it's alright.  Keep running.  You will not outrun God.  You're just not going to be able to do it.  He's already begun to show you that you're miserable.  Now, what He's going to do next and let me tell you what He's going to do next, He's going to show you how beautiful He is and then it's all over.  Just warning you that that's how this ends.”  And we tell, because we've been invited by God to.  We have been invited by God to witness His power, not externally, but internally flowing through us.  Tell me that that's not a better way of growing in confidence in Christ.  And listen, even if nobody ever gets saved, I've seen you after you've finally got a chance to tell somebody about Christ.  I've got your e-mails..I mean, novels.  Or over a lunch.  I mean a 45 minute read on a conversation you finally got to have with a coworker.  And then, all of a sudden, although there's been no claim for Christ, no salvation, just the fact that you got to share ignites the soul for Christ!  “I finally got to do it, Matt.  I got to sit down, we got to talking, kind of nitpicking each other for years, we finally sat down and for 45 minutes I explained to him the cross of Christ and why it's relevant.”  And there is this stirring of the Holy Spirit of God that comes in the obedience of God inviting us to play and us going, “Oh, let's play!”  Could it be that evangelism is more about God wooing you?  And listen, study missions guys.  Study missions in the dark places.  See how many people came to know Christ without anybody.  It seems to me the number is on the rise, men who come to know Christ in a dream, men who just get saved, men who know the realities of Scripture that have never held a Bible in their hands, guys who are quoting it and preaching it and have never read it.  Now, what do you think is going on there?  “I guess he just woke up one morning and said, 'I think I'm going to be a Christian.'”  No, there's something else going on there.  There's something else.

 

Those are the two big ones although there's dozens more.  A big question that comes up often is “Well, what about babies?  If God's sovereign, what about babies?”  I don't know about babies, nor does anyone else.  And I tell our staff all the time, and I tell every seminary I stand in front of, “Do created theologies about God to make you feel better about Him.”  What I know about God is, He is abounding in love, and I know that John the Baptist was saved in the womb.  Go read it.  That's all I know.  And I know that, biblically, God is in the habit of saving the children of those who fear Him.  That's all I know.  That's what I know, because that's what the Bible says.  But you've got this whole branch that goes, “No, it's when a child truly understands.  That's when salvation occurs.”  And so, I'm flipping through, trying to find it.  I can't find one text that would support that anywhere in the Bible.  But we invented it because we didn't know how to answer it, but we wanted to make people feel good about God.  So somebody sits in my office and goes, “What happened to my 9 month old?”  I'm gonna grab them and I'm gonna hug them and I'm going to tell them that God is loving and He is gracious that He is full of love, it is the character of God.  “Trust Him....Trust Him.”  I'm not going to invent some stuff.  I'm not going to invent some stuff to make them feel better about God.  I want them to trust the sovereign, the God of the universe. 

 

My daughter's thirteen months.  You know, it's funny, everybody tries to explain how you love your kids before you have them.  They try to sit down and go, “Oh, you know it's just this thing, you know.”  And you can't grasp it until you hold your kid, and the funny thing about it is you got all this crazy love just in the beginning, and then they start developing the personality and you love them even more.  And you would have bet four months earlier that there's no way you could love them more.  You would have been like, “I bet my soul on it.  I bet my soul and everything I own that I could not love my daughter more than I love right now.”  And then, she learns to say “dada” and give you a high five.  And then, you're going, “Oh gosh!”  My daughter has revealed many things to me.  One of the questions I got asked one time...I taught this class at Abilene Christian University with another professor there.  One of the things I got asked was, “What about your kids in light of all this, if God's the one who saves?  How would you feel about your kids not being chosen by God?”  What is revealed in me, if I think about that too much, is my own idolatry, that I would say, “I love her over Your will and over Your plan and over Your glory.”  And my daughter has revealed to me, repeatedly, that He, at times, is not my utmost treasure and that I'm guilty of idolatry.  So, I have to repent.  And I have to say, “For my daughter's good, be my treasure.”  And then, I beg for her soul every night, every night.  I'm going to get home tonight and she's already going to be asleep and I'm going to walk in through the laundry room and my wife's going to meet me there and go, “Don't wake her up.”  And I'm going to make a right down the hallway and I'm going to pick her up out of her crib and I'm going to rock her and I'm going to say, “May the Lord bless you and keep you.  May the Lord cause His face to shine upon you.  May He lift up His countenance upon you and may He give you peace.  Save my daughter.  Save my daughter.  Call to her.  Woo her.  Don't let her be another P.K.(Preacher's Kid) who sees in me an inconsistency that would drive her from you.  May she say of me that I loved You dearly and I You most only second to her mother.  Save my daughter.”  And I'm going to kiss her face and I'm going to make sure her pacie is in there good and I'm going to put her back in her crib and then I'm going to go pray with her mama.  And in our prayer time together, we're going to thank God for Audrey's health and that she's not sniffling anymore, and then we're going to ask for her soul again. 

 

Alright, what is the fruit of believing this?  Number one, “These truths may exalt Him as the author and sustainer of all things and inspire awe, reverence and genuine worship.”  Number two, “These truths make me desperate.”  If God's the sovereign, if He does it all and is all and is doing all, then man we have a lot to worship about.  Man, we have a lot to praise about.  Just think about the thousands of little good things that have happened to us this week.  Think about the fact that you still got your health.  Think about the fact that you still got your mind.  Think about that we had beautiful weather today.  Think about the fact that your car ran.  Think about the fact that your husbands love you, that your wives love you, you've got good friendships.  Think about the fact that you'll sleep tonight in a bed and not on rocks somewhere.  Praise Him that you got air conditioning, heating, that you're saved, that He's allowed you to grow to some maturity in Him, that He's protected you against the worst consequences of your sin, that you have done things that others have done exactly and they have perished for them and you lived.  Ask me how many times I drank and got in a car.  I'll tell you dozens, at least.  And yet, there are others that didn't survive that. 

 

“These truths make me confident that the work which God planned and began, he will finish both personally and globally.”  I always say this about the sovereignty of God, “The sovereignty of God assures that we can go into any tribe anywhere in the world and either by our spoken word or by our shedding blood die in the confidence that our word and our blood will bring about children of God.”  Jim Elliot, he doesn't get to talk to them; he gets speared by them, one of the most evangelized tribes in the world.  With his words or with his blood.  Jim Elliot's son wrote in an article in “Christianity Today” that the details surrounding the death of his father were so intricate and so precise that outside of divine ordination, they could have never occurred, “Christianity Today,” son of Jim Elliot.  I don't know if you heard what he just said, but he just said, “God killed my dad.”  That's what he said.  He didn't come out and say that, but that's what he just said.  “Outside of divine ordination, this could have never occurred.”  And yet, the blood that was spilled that went into the ground brought about a harvest.  This is the confidence that we have in the sovereignty of God, that from every tongue, every tribe, every nation He will call those to be children of God.  So, it doesn't matter where we go, whether by word or by blood, the fame of God will be known and worshiped. 

 

“These truths help me see everything in light of God's sovereign purposes that from Him and through Him and to Him are all things.”  This helps us with suffering and this helps us with death.  It's a different way of seeing.  Like, I have a hard time with those, theologically, who would ascribe everything to the devil and demons.  You know, your car breaks down; it was the car demon.  And if you're sick, it's the sick demon.  And there are all these demons and they're doing all this stuff.  And listen, I do believe in demons, I do believe they oppress, I do believe they do possess.  I do believe in demons, so don't hear me saying that they don't exist.  But if my car breaks down on the way home tonight, I don't think it's the devil; I think it's God bringing me a wrecker.  Because there's going to be somebody driving that wrecker who has to sit with me and can't go anywhere but my house.  And on that trip, he's going to hear about the gospel of Christ.  Because I'm going to say, “What do you for a living?”  And he's going to look at me like I'm an idiot and he's like, “I drive a tow truck. What do you do?”  “I'm a pastor.”  And if he won't go with me on that, I'm gonna ask him if he's seen “The Passion.” And if he says “no” to that, I'm going to ask him if he's seen “The Matrix.”  And because he'll be a middle-aged man, he'll say, “Yes, I've seen 'The Matrix.'”  And then I'll start saying, “Hey, did you think that the world might be a little bit like that?  Do you think that there might be a greater reality that most human beings aren't aware of?”  And so hey, in Deuteronomy, he says what evil means for evil, God means for good.  Last week in prayer Wednesday night, Chad Cottle, who was up here in the front, Elaine Cottle's son.  We were doing “I Thank You God” and Chad, up here, said “I thank you God for the early death of my father.  For without that, I don't know that I would have ever come to know You.”  That's what he said up here.  Now, the funny thing is, Elaine just a couple of weeks ago with me out there, discussed that that might just be true.  I've never said anything to Chad about that.  Chad's going, “The death of my father...cancer...way too early in life.”  You know what Chad does now?  He runs all our youth small groups.  He's putting together a mission trip to Romania.  It helps us see things in light of God's sovereign purposes.  Now, let me put an asterisk there and say that doesn't mean we enjoy stuff.  Job, in his worship, never used the phrase, “yippie.”  He tears his clothes, he sobs, he shaves his head, he throws ashes on himself and he worships.  So, I'm not telling you to enjoy cancer.  I'm not telling you to enjoy your car breaking down.  I'm saying we understand them in light of God's sovereignty and purposes.  Augustine explains it through stained glass window.  He says if you're close to a stained glass window, all the glass looks jagged and rough and you can't really see that it's pretty.  But the more you back up and the further back you go the more beautiful the stained glass window becomes.  God sees from afar; we see right up close.  Keep in mind how large the time line is when you talk, “I have always been and I will always be.”  Now, can you kind of grasp the time line?  Keep in mind that you're nearly an invisible dot, so much so that God says you're like the dew on the grass in the morning.  That's how God compares your time here on earth.  You're here in the morning; you're gone in the afternoon.  That's how God sees our lives.  So, He sees in such greater realities than we do. 

 

“These truths make me hopeful that God has the will, the right and the power to answer prayer that people be changed.”  And we've talked about that one, that we can go to God, knowing that He can and will and has the power to save people.  I talked to someone earlier this week, “do I pray?” they're lost, they don't want anything to do with Christ, “Do I pray?”  “Pray, pray, pray.  Don't ever stop praying.  It's your only hope.  Don't ever stop.  If hospice tells you, you're gone by that night, then you gather together the saints and you pray and you pray and you pray and you pray and no matter how many times they say no, no matter how wicked they look, how evil they look, how dark they look, how much they blaspheme, how much they say they want nothing to do with God, you pray pray pray pray.  Because we got the biblical examples of a bunch of blasphemous murders who God calls.”

 

“These truths remind me that evangelism is absolutely essential for people to come to Christ and be saved and that there is great hope for success in leading people to faith but the conversion is not finally dependent on me or limited by the hardness of the unbeliever.”  And we just talked about some of that.  Hey, praise God that it's not based on our ability.  In fact, it seems like people in their first couple of months of their salvation win more people to Christ than pretty much the whole rest of their time.  Now, that's probably a sad indictment on the way we disciple.  You know, somebody who doesn't know any Scripture and barely understands what happened to them is out there winning people to Christ.  And we joked all the time, all the time here we've joked about being in those conversations where we're telling somebody something, and while we're telling them and quoting Scripture and putting things together, we're going, “Oh gosh!  This is good stuff.  Where am I getting this?”  I mean, you don't even know where you got it.  I mean, all of a sudden, this divine mystery has come together, and you're Augustine.  You're C.S. Lewis.  I mean, you're putting together words and sentences and you're moving yourself.  It isn't dependent on your ability.  And let me asterisk there and say I don't think that means you just sit around and not study either. 

 

And then, here's the last one, “Sweet Jesus, these truths make me sure that God will triumph in the end.”  I've heard a lot about how dark our country's getting.  Yeah, alright.  That's probably why we're here huh?  Dee and I were in a meeting about China on Monday afternoon.  They were talking about some of the problems in China when it comes to Christians in China.  There's very little discipleship that's occurring.  There's a lot of people getting saved, but not a lot of people getting discipled.  I'm going, “Good Lord, send some missionaries to the States then.”  We're not going to lose.  God triumphs in the end.  We know how the story ends.  Isaiah 46:9-10, “I am God and there is none other; I am God, and there is no one like Me, declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, 'My purpose will be established, and I will accomplish all My good pleasure.'”  Psalm 115:3, “But our God is in the heavens; He does whatever He pleases.”  And Daniel 4 is one of my favorites, because it will never be on a t-shirt or a mug ever.  If Christ tarries another thousand years, no one's putting this on another t-shirt.  “For His dominion is an everlasting dominion, and His kingdom endures from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, but He does according to His will in the host of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth; and no one can ward off His hand or say to Him, 'What have You done?'” 

 

Wrestle.  Wrestle with the word of God.  Hey, it's only been in the last thirty years that we hadn't been given permission to do that.  One of the reasons I love Christian history is you go, “Oh man, this isn't new stuff that we're walking through.”  Luther talks about reading the book of Romans and laying hold of Paul and beating him until he submitted.  He's talking about the book of Romans.  He reads through it and he's like, “What?”  So he laid hold of him and he beat him until he gave up the answers.  That's how you read your Bible.  Not, “'Jacob I loved, Esau I hated?' I don't know anything about that.”  And then what's happened among evangelicals is this is such a fire point that nobody wants to talk about it. It has been such a division causing doctrine.  And let me tell you why it's division causing, because we're sinful, stupid people.  And so, what ends up happening is this, for five or six years, as someone who loves the Bible, I wrestle with these truths and knock my head against them and pray and fast and fight and journal and not like it.  I mean, when these things started coming together, my mind, I'm not going like, “Oh great!”  I mean, I don't like it.  And I'm wrestling and fighting.  And then finally, and up till this day, this has been a doctrine that has been the warmest blanket for my cold soul.  I love this doctrine.  It gives me confidence and fire, but it took me six years to get there.  And one of the reasons it's divisive is people stand up at the pulpit and go, “You believe like it took me six years to figure out and you do it now.  And if you don't like it, you might not be saved.”  And then what happens is the place unravels or it splits.  I always go, “Man, you get into the Bible, I'm not worried about where you land, I know where you land, I know where the Bible lands.”  Study, pray, wrestle.  I'm not saying you have to like these things, I'm just saying you have to deal with them.  For me, it was six years.  Cheeves, what did it take you?  Like a week and a half? Two weeks?  Three months.  Just like college baby, I'm always on the long track.  Cheeves battles for three months.  Let me tell you this, the first night we taught this here, I'm going, “Well, this might cost me my job.” This class got brought up because of a statement in our doctrinal statement in the new constitution that Tim had some questions about and he was like, “I got a question.  Why isn't this line in there?”  And I'm like, “Well, I don't believe that.”  And then, in the room with what's going to be our elders, everybody's like, “What?”  And I'm like, “Okay, let's teach on it.”  And I teach on it that night, and Margie who's been a Sunday school teacher here for years goes, “Sigh, thank God.  I knew this was in there the thole time.  I just didn't know...”  And so, for her it took an hour and a half.  All I'm telling you is that you got two choices when it comes to the word of God.  You can read it and wrestle through and submit it or you can rail against it.  Or, there is a third, you can be indifferent.  But where there is indifference to the revealed word of God, I've got some questions about the state of your heart.  So wrestle.  Wrestle on.  