If you have your Bibles, let's go to Ephesians 4.  I know you can say to yourself, “That's not Luke.”  And I would agree with you.  It's not Luke at all.  The government says that if we're going to be a church, a non-profit organization, then once a year we have to roll out to you a budget to be voted on by the members of the church and approved.  And if we're going to keep our non-profit status, we're going to have  to do that.  Now, in years past what we did was we announced that and then we did it on a Wednesday night and turnout for that was normally massive.  Between six and nine people crammed into the auditorium in here.  You can imagine that the energy level was through the roof and there was a dead glaze that would come over most people's eyes.  And I would throw out numbers, there would be no questions and then we would go home.  And that's how it historically went.  So in an executive staff meeting, we just kind of realized that whenever we would announce when and where that meeting would be, we could be assured that you would not be here.  And so we kicked around how we could still make you aware of what was going on in a way that wouldn't suck the life out of you, where you could hear, where you could understand.  And so about two, three years ago, the idea got thrown out, “Why don't we just, on a given weekend, surprise them?”  Surprise!  What I want to do and I want to do it quickly is talk to you about our money here.  And I want to do it in such a way, because there's a lot of people going, “Do you really want to do that?  There are a lot of people at the church that aren't members of the church.  There are people who think you just want their money.”  But I was like, “Well, that's their sin, not ours because we're not asking for it.”  So if they're like, “They just want my money.”  Well, you just keep holding on to it tight because nobody's asking you for it.  If you're a guest with us here tonight, well you just kind of stumbled into a family meeting and I'll try to do this as painless as I possibly can.  Every weekend when men and women come in here, they will drop in these little black boxes that are in the back of the room and on the sides of the room, we call them “joy boxes,” they'll drop money in there, they'll put a check in there, most of them will just put change from their car in there, but they put money in there.  And what I want to do, just unapologetically, is unpack for you what happens to that money, now not line item by line item.  We're not going to go, “And then we bought some pencils.  And then we got some more pencils.” 

 

We're not going to do that, but I do want to in a percentage way tell you what happens to every penny that's given here at the Village Church.  Every time you drop money into these little joy boxes, ten percent of it just gets given away.  And this number flexes.  It's ten percent now.  It's gotten up as high as fourteen percent but will never go lower than ten percent.  Ten percent of everything that comes in here goes right back out all over the place.  Let me tell you some things you did this year.  We did it, you did it by giving.  In some larger countries in Asia you can only have one child.  That's all you can have.  And they want the boy, they don't want the girl because the boy carries on the family name.  And so, specifically in the villages what will happen is if they have a girl, they will just abandon the girl.  They will just leave the infant girl on the side of the road, they will take here out in the woods and leave her there.  And this is something we learned in the area that we worked was occurring.  What would happen is families that were full of compassion would take in these little girls.  And so in an already impoverished area of the country, you would have this very poor family that had their one child and then had taken in three or four little girls and was trying to provide for them.  Well one of the things you did this year is, through some contacts in that country, we began to engage these families and provide for them, not necessarily just cash because we learned a long time ago that that doesn't really work well.  But what we did was on an individual basis, we would go into the home and figure out ways to help.  So one story was there was one family who had a fire in their kitchen, which you wouldn't call a kitchen I promise you.  There was a fire that had kind of ruined some things, and so they were literally outside cooking anytime they would cook.  And by giving to the Village Church, you guys built them a kitchen.  It wasn't anything like “Extreme Home Makeover,” but we got them a kitchen, a way to cook inside away from the elements.  So what we did this year with that 10#% is you have clothed, you have fed and you have provided education for a bunch of little girls who had no hope in the world.  On top of that, you've planted some churches.  Earlier this year, Eric Mason came here and taught.  He is the pastor of a church in inner-city Philadelphia.  It is a very difficult place to plant.  Nearly 90% of his congregation is on welfare and very poor.  So even if they could give what they can give, it's next to nothing.  And one of the things you did this year is you financially supported the plant in Philadelphia.  In downtown Dallas, you provide for an after school program for troubled teenagers.  Are you getting it?  Do I need to keep going?  Ten percent gets given away regardless of our needs.  Earlier this year before Denton  and a couple of other things happened, we were running 98% capacity across six services, which means we were turning away from every service we did on the weekend.  We were in desperate need for space, desperate need to do something about it.  We would never do that at the expense of the mission.  And let me tell you why.  It is a law of the universe that what takes in must push out, and if it doesn't, it dies.  If you don't believe that that's how God wired the universe, for the rest of my message, breathe in and don't breathe out.  See how that works for you.  And a word to the rest of you.  If anyone around you tries that, it's going to get awkward in here.  So we give it away. Ten percent, we give it away.  It's gone as high as fourteen percent, it will never go below ten percent.  We'll give it out, we'll give it out, we'll give it out.  This is one of the small ways we try to stay focused on the reality that it's not about us.  In fact, if you're new here, I'll tell you, I've said it since I got here:  I always want it to be difficult here.  I always want the parking lot to be somewhat difficult.  There's got to be things beyond this sermon that communicates that this whole thing is not about you and your comfort.  The sermon itself is inadequate to teach that.  Facilities do a great job of teaching that, right?

 

Thirty one percent of everything that comes in goes to operations and ministries.  And here's what I mean by that.  I don't know if you knew this or not but the power company still makes us pay them.  I've tried to tell them that we work for God but for whatever reason, they don't buy it.  So there are lights on, there is air in here right now so we're not sweating to death, there are water bills and on and on and on.  We have bills that have to get paid, and not just on one campus.  We have two campuses.  And so there is an operation to those things that is required.  Also in this bit we put ministries.  Now, that number is not very high because we are not a program-driven church.  Let me give you an example.  We get asked four questions over and over and over again.  Let me go over them.  One: Why don't you give an invitation?  Two: Where's Sunday school?  Three:  Why don't you take up an offering?  Four:  When does Awanas meet?  Every weekend, around 62 times, we get asked one of those four questions.  And then some times we get what we call the trifecta if you ask three or more of those.  If we get at least nine of you that do that, we have a cake on Tuesday.  So in terms of programing, we have a little bit different bent on it.  It's not right or wrong; it's just what we feel called by God to do.  We're big fans of Awanas.  Like if you call and you want to do Awanas, we'll tell you every church in town that does it and we'll encourage you to go there.  But where we want to spend our time and our energy and our efforts, because we do eight services, we don't want to tap that base of volunteers to do one other night of the week, which we couldn't house anyway since we have to house it across eight services, by January it will be ten.  Instead what we want to do is train, provide for and equip the parents to impart the glory of God to their children.  Because in the end, I am not accountable for your children, neither is Anne, neither is Theresa.  You'll stand in front of God and you'll give an account for how you raised your children, not me.  I'm not going to stand in front of God and have God go, “You've got a lot of babies I'm going to need to ask you about here.  Hoodlum, hoodlum, hoodlum.  What did you do?”   That's not going to happen.  You'll be held accountable.  So here's what we want to do.  We're going to spend all our energy, all our time, all our effort, if you have kids here, when you go and pick them up, you're going to find a list of things that we want to ask you to do with your children, field trips to take, lessons to give, devotionals to teach through.  You're going to get that every week when you walk in here.  Because we want you to be able to do it rather than make up for your laziness by spending two, three, four hundred thousand dollars on massive programing.  I know that stings a little bit, but that's just philosophy. 

 

Alright, fifty-seven percent of the budget goes to staffing.  The national average is between 50 and 60 percent, we're a little bit on the high end.  We are a church of an average attendance of a little bit under 5,000 adults per weekend and we have a staff of 60.  Our ratio is about 1:93.  So for every one person on staff, there's 93 people here they're responsible for.  It breaks down kind of like that even though it doesn't work that way.  And that's a big chunk, but that's a theology, a philosophy behind that big chunk.  Let me show it to you here.  Go to Ephesians 4, we'll pick it up in verse 11.  “And he gave the apostles,...”  Now the apostles were those who had walked with Jesus plus Paul.  And what they did was they were over whole areas of the church.  So when Paul writes to the church at Corinth, which is a city, all the churches in Corinth answer to their pastor, their elders and then Paul the apostle.  So there's a lot of debate around whether or not apostleship exists or not.  Depending on denomination, depending on framework, there's an argument there.  I'm not trying to solve that tonight.  So God gave some to be apostles.  He gave some to be prophets.  This is not the gift of teaching because teaching is going to be listed here in a minute.  This is the gift of prophecy, words of encouragement, words of knowledge for the church. “He gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists,...”  Now here's a little interesting tidbit about this gift of evangelism.  Some people are given the gift of evangelism but all are required to do the work of an evangelist.  This is where this one's probably a little bit different from the rest of the gifts.  All of us are required by the Scriptures to share our faith with other people, to talk about Christ with other people, but some have what's called the gift of evangelism.  And what ends up happening is people just a lot more people get saved around these people than they will around us.  Like the story I've shared with you before was there was this street evangelist in Abilene that I ran with named Jose.  And things would just happen when he was around.  I think the one I've shared with you before was when we were going through Subway.  And he ordered a 6” tuna sub.  And then he just started talking to the girl.  He was like, “Do you think that sandwich can feed 5,000 people?”  She's like, “No sir.  We have a big one that feeds 32 people, but that's not 5,000 people.  You would need like 400 of those.”  And he's like, “No no no, that 6” sandwich, do you think that sandwich could feed 5,000 people?”  “No sir.”  “Then you don't know Jesus.”  And I'm like, “Seriously?  This is how you're doing this?”  But here's what happens.  She checks us out, I go and eat, he's there sharing the gospel, they go over to a chair and I'm watching them pray.  I'm like, “Are you serious?  That's how this is going down?  'Can that tuna sandwich feed 5,000 people?'  That's how you're going to do this?”  The little girl accepts Christ there in Subway.  Now if I pull that, if I'm like, “Do you think that sandwich can feed 5,000 people?” she'd be like, “Sir, I will call the police on you.  You will go to jail tonight, sir.  I am not in the mood.”  So, I've shared my faith a lot, I've shared it with my neighbors, but some people, when they do it, things happen quicker and with a lot more power than when others do it.  We've all been called.  This is why Paul tells Timothy, “Do the work of an evangelist.”  Isn't that interesting phrasing?  He doesn't say “you are an evangelist,” he says “you do the work of one.”  It's almost like he's distinguishing, “Yeah, you're not but that doesn't remove you from this.”  Alright, so an evangelist is this person who has this unique skill. 

 

So, He gave as apostles, some as prophets, He gave the evangelists, then He gave the pastors or the shepherds and then He gave teachers.  Now look at what He gave them for.  Look at verse 12, “...to equip the saints for the work of ministry.”  Now, if we could ever get this into your soul, how the church plays out in the States would look very different.  Because what this just said was that my job and Bleecker's job and Patterson's job and Ader's and Snetzer's job is to prepare you for ministry.  That's our role.  My role here is to prepare you to be the best minister you can be wherever you are.  So my role is to make you a better minister in your neighborhood, a better minister in your domain of work, a better minister when you go to you areas of play.  It is not my job to be the minister of this community; it is my job to train you to minister.  That is a wildly different idea than most of us operate under.  Even it's even in how we call things and name them, even the semantics we use, that “I've been called to the ministry.”  Well if you're saved, you're called to the ministry.  If you're a Christian, you're in.  That's why I always kind of giggle whenever I sit down with guys who are like, “I think I'm called to the ministry.”  I'll be like, “Are you saved?  Too late!  You are.”  So here's what my job is.  My job, my concern, our job, our concern is about deepening you.  Look at this.  “...to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes.”  Our role here, and I'll be completely honest with you, our role as pastors is to do everything we can to deepen your relationship with Christ and grow you into the fullness of Him.  That's our role.  And because we understand that as our role, there has never been one meeting, one plan, one thing set into motion with the end goal of getting people here, ever.  Where we spend all our time, all our energy, all our passion is “How can we deepen the lives of the men and women who are here into the fullness of Christ?”  That's our job.  That's it.  And how it plays out here is usually men and women are in an area of service here as lay men, as lay women, they're not getting paid and it gets to the point where they have either to walk away from it because they can no longer do it and do their job.  So take a guy like Dustin Hamilton, who will be mortified that I said his name from the stage.  He is in the back and just kind of the back rooms of this place making sure video's working, making sure sound is working.  I could go on and on about all that he does here.  He just worked and worked and worked.  He was doing like 12-15 hours a week up here as a volunteer.  And then we started getting to the place where were were like, “Well, we need more from him, but he's only getting to sleep 17 minutes a day.  So let's get that up to 30 minutes and hire him.”  And so this is how this has worked, almost top down.  It's a very rare thing for us to go outside the walls of this church to hire.  We hire from within and it's because they rose up.  We're not overstaffed at all.  In fact, the national average is like one staff member to every 73 people.  Last year, we were 1 to 143.  We have not gone crazy on our staffing.  We're better this year, but just so you know we haven't gone crazy, we have 60 computers and work stations and we have one IT guy.  You'll know him when you see him.  He's the one with bags under his eyes and he's just angry.  I'm kidding.  He is awesome.  But you can see we haven't gone crazy on this.  And I don't know that it will always be this way.  How we've always hired is we've waited for something to get too big and crazy and it's almost about to fall apart and we're like, “Let's hire someone to fix it.”  If we keep getting bigger, I don't know that we're going to be able to do that.  Because then you're bringing in a guy going, “Here's three thousand that are in a mess.  Good luck, buddy.”  We're going to eventually get ahead of this game.  Now, that's what happens to the money here. 

 

When I first got here, we started going, “Hey, we're going to do this a certain way.”  And one of the things we said early on was we're not going to talk about money here and we will never put out a thermometer, ever.  It's not going to happen.  And we've been pretty spot-on about this deal.  We just finished a campaign to buy the Albertson's and what was the campaign called?  “We Need $4 Million in Sixty Days.”  No dinners, I didn't call one rich person.  I said, “We need $4 million in sixty days” and that's what we did.  By the way, we close December 20th and we're at $3.9 million.  So we're $100,000 away from us being able to pay cash for that building.  It's pretty crazy.  And I was at a leadership practicum and they were like, “How do you raise money?”  I was like, “We just stood up and said, 'We need $4 million in sixty days.'”  And everybody thought I lied.  So, we haven't talked a lot about it and there's two reasons why.  Let me tell you the first one.  I want to say this just to be really careful.  I'm not talking about any place in particular, so if you've got bitterness in your heart towards a church and you think I'm calling somebody out, it's your sin, not mine.  When I got here after traveling and teaching for ten years, I felt like there was a lot of abuses out there when it came to money.  And I'm not just talking about the $100 key chain filled with anointing oil.  Honestly, that's very practical.  I can't tell you the times I've needed anointing oil and I didn't have any.  And so, I'm not so much talking about that although I very much am.  But even on top of that, there were things like this.  On more than one occasion, I was either on staff on staff at a place or even just checking things out in places that were about 70% capacity and building a massive building.  And they bought into the, “If we build something big that can be seen from a major thoroughfare, we'll grow.”  And so what ended up happening was you could go to the 9:00AM service and there would be like 500 seats open but they were building a 4,000 seat auditorium somewhere for $30-50 million.  And “If they build it, they will come.”  It was that kind of idea.  Now, throw out the fact that that's insanity and that you might not be afraid of God.  But I was just like, “Okay, we're not going to do that.”  So if we ever do anything, it will be because we're in pain.  And if you want to know why we got the Albertson's, before we got started in Denton and before Denton really took off, we were at 98% capacity at six services and turning away people from every service we had here.  There wasn't one where we weren't saying, “Sorry...sorry...sorry...”  So this was just our philosophy.  We just didn't talk about it because I didn't want to be a part of what I saw as monumental abuses. 

 

And then here is the other thing I thought and I don't know why I thought this because in ministry for about sixteen years and this has never happened anywhere.  So I don't know why I thought this.  I thought that if the Holy Spirit just blew a place up and all of a sudden it was full of energy and full of life and men were getting saved...and I say men on purpose there.  I'm not trying to be a sexist, but the most unchurched human being in America is the 20 and 30 year old male.  And it just so happens that it's one of our highest groups here.  So if it started blowing up and growing and you had young men getting saved, you had older men wanting to engage younger men and you kind of did things right and you were authentic and raw and there was no show involved and you just kind of got after it and just sang to the Lord and you just unapologetically preached, then you'd never have to talk about money, people would just give.  In fact, you didn't even need to take up an offering.  Just put some black boxes in the back.  Call them “joy boxes.”  But there's a theology that drives that a Scripture that drives that.  Go to 2 Corinthians 9 real quickly.  Starting in verse 6, “The point is this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.”  I want to say a quick word here because I think this verse gets really abused by health and wealth preachers.  This is not saying that if you give a lot of money to the church, then you're going to get a lot of money back from some other area.  That's not what it's saying.  What he's talking about here is an open handed life.  And what I mean by that is when you understand that we're transient, when you understand that this world is not our home and you don't clutch this world like it's all there's ever going to be, then you live at a level of fullness that really escapes other people.  So when materialism and those kind of other things aren't what defines you and you can give away freely what's been given to you by God for God and the ministry of the kingdom of God, then you're going to reap rich life.  That's what he's saying here.  So be careful of those who go, “If you give me $200, you'll get $2000 back.”  I mean, that might happen in some crazy scenario, but it's not the rule.  Now look at this because I love it.  “Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver.”  This word “cheerful” in the Greek is hilaron.  We get our word “hilarious” from it.  God loves a hilarious giver.  It makes us sound a little crazy, doesn't it?  It makes you sound a little insane, but it says here that God loves the hilarious giver.  Because let me tell you how we got it backwards.  What the Scripture says is that we should live lives that are so open handed that it brings us an immense amount of joy and God an immense amount of glory to see all that we have and all that we've been given as a tool by God for God.  And God loves that heart that says, “It's all His anyway.”  Now, how we got it backwards is what we do is take His wealth and we build big houses and get nice cars and we go, “Isn't God good?  Look at that.”  That's a little backwards.  Now let me says something.  I'm not telling you what to drive or what to live in.  Anytime I preach a sermon like this, everybody who drives like a Porsche Boxter lives in shame for six weeks.  The just mull around here so nobody sees them get into it in the parking lot.  And then when I see them around town, they'll just give me like the, “It's a work car.  It was given to me by work.  I work at the new Wal-Mart.  It's a high-end Wal-Mart, so that's what they give us.”  And I'm just like, “Hey man, nobody should ever judge you by what you drive or what you live in.”  I don't think we should all be driving Vespas and living in 1,000 square feet.  That's not what I'm trying to say.  I'm not a Communist; I'm just trying to tell you that God loves a heart that understands that everything they have has been given to them for their joy and that their full joy is not taking all of that ans spending it all on themselves.  And the crazy thing is, almost all of you have learned this lesson but for whatever reason it just won't stick.  I mean, you've gone, “Ooh, if I could just get here....Ooh, if I could just get here...Ooh if I could just get here...” and you got there and found out it was inadequate.  Now we need a bigger house, a better car.  And then here's what he says and here's why the Boxters are in the back.  It says, “Don't ever give reluctantly or under compulsion.”  Don't go, “Oh, I've got to give or God will give me cancer.”  You can't buy Him off.  Don't give reluctantly and it also says don't give under compulsion.  I don't know if you've ever been a part of a seventeen minute offertory but some of those guys are good.  I mean, I've been in one just listening going, “Okay...okay, here it is.  Go, reach the nations.  I'm in.”  I don't know if you've ever sat through that, but the Scriptures are pretty clear, “Hey, don't give under compulsion.”  And so we've just kind of stayed away from it. 

 

Now, we did the first four years; this last year I've talked more about it.  I did, I engaged money on a couple of occasions.  Let me just give you a couple of examples.  The average church person in Dallas who goes to church at least once a week is in their 50's.  The average person in Dallas is in their 30's.  There's a 20 year gap between the average church attender and the people who live here.  But listen to this.  The average church goer in Dallas gives $2,000 a year to their church, that's average.  The average church goer at the Village Church gives $1,400 a year.  So if this is average, we're about right down here.  Now there's several reasons for that.  One of them is our age.  Because if the average givers are giving and they're in their 50's, they're in a little bit different place than the guy who's 23.  And that's part of the reason, so I'm not here to rebuke you; I'm just here to tell you where we are.  Now on a whole, there are a lot of people that come in here week after week after week, they sit, they feed, they go to home groups, they do all of that and they give nothing.  And so as I've gotten older, I've found that what I was thinking 3-5 years ago was really naïve.  Because just unbelievable things have happened here and there's a buzz about us in the D/FW area.  I can't travel anywhere where people haven't heard about us and we're getting calls from all over the country going, “What exactly are you doing?”  Let me just give you a quick example.  In 2003, the average adult attendance was 596.  That's not including preschool or anything like that.   In 2007, this past year, the average adult attendance every weekend was 4,095.  Over the last three months, that number's been closer to 5,000.  Now, let me ask you a question.  How did you get here?  Let me guess.  It was our creative marketing campaign.  It was all those mail-outs that we've sent out, the ones that tell you when the new series begins.  You didn't get those?  Yeah, because we didn't mail you any.  It was our billboard, right?  Did you pass the billboard?  You didn't pass that either?  Okay, maybe it was the church sign that you passed by that says, “CH__CH.  What's missing here?  UR.”  How does anybody get saved, really?  How does anybody get saved?  I don't know how you can't believe a God whose people come up with stuff like that.  My favorite one ever was, “Forget the porn and be reborn.  John 14:3.”  I was like, “John 14 says that?  I've never seen that.  Are you serious?  That sounds more like the Psalms.  It rhymes.”  So we've got tons and tons of people coming here and it's not because we've done anything to get you here.  We don't advertise, we don't market; I mean we just don't do those things.  So what's happened is people have come, they've been touched by the Lord and then they go grab a friend.  It's been completely viral and I love it.  And then why do they stay?  Is it our creative services?  I believe we sang two hymns tonight.  There's not lasers, there's not smoke.  If you'll read about human attention span, they're saying right now, because of all the things we do, most humans, specifically North Americans, have about a 20-22 minute attention span where they can really gather.  I speak anywhere between 40 to 90 minutes, depending on the topic.  I mean honestly, we haven't been great about video.  It's just been the last two years where we've been able to show a DVD across all our services without it busting in one of them.  Okay, so something's going on here that's not our doing.  We could grow to be 20,000, but we'll never be able to write a book, a prescriptive book about how we do what we do.  How lame of a book would that be?  What do you even write?  I don't even know what you write.  “Chapter 1: Pray and fast for eight weeks and someone will give you a building...Chapter 2:...”  I mean, I don't even know how you do that.  We don't know.  Half of the stuff we do is insane.  And everybody's going, “That's not going to work, that's not going to work.”  And we're like, “Probably not.  Let's try it.”  So I've been a little naïve. 

 

At the end of the day, there are all these creative men and women here, they're sharp, the staff of this place, if we could hold them together.  I've been traveling and I'm just telling you, they are amazing now and they're only going to get better.  And what they've done, getting ready for '08, is they've spent the last four months as a whole staff praying and talking and going “Where is God taking us?”  And then people would come in and go, “This is what we feel like God wants us to do” and we'd add up the numbers and go, “There's no way.  There's no way you can do all that.  We need you to pare it down.  Listen, we'd love to do all that, but there's no way we're going to bring in that kind of resources.  We're just not there.  If a millionaire wrote us a check, we wouldn't be there.  So pare it down, pare it down.”  They'll come back and say, “We've got an idea, a projection of this is where we might land.”  And then you kind of do the numbers.  And they came together and we pared it down, we met as elders and argued some as the elders and tried to figure out how we were going to do this thing.  At the end, let me tell you where we are.  Currently every weekend, we pull in about $98,000.  That's what the Village Church gets every weekend.  Across it's eight services, with all its people, that's what we pull in.  In '08 for us to meet budget, we're going to need that number to be about $131,000 a weekend.  Now that might sound like a big jump to you, but it's about the same size jump we've made every year for the last four years. 

 

And I always hesitate at this moment because I know some of you are here tonight and your situation is a dire one and even me telling you where we are gets more weighty for you.  But can I throw this out to you, just a couple of things?  If you're not giving because you're overwhelmed with debt, why don't you let us help?  We have a whole department here that will help you get out of debt.  And if you go, “I don't have a debt problem,” if you're laying in bed tonight wondering how you're going to pay your bills, you've probably got a debt problem.  If you've played the game where you take this credit card and move all your credit card over to this credit card because you promised yourself that has a better rate and you'll be able to get it only to get this credit card, you've got some debt issues.  Why won't you let us help?  Nothing is more overwhelming than debt.  It will just kill you.  That's why we have such a strict policy about rarely if we've ever gone into any debt here, because it will kill you.  It will make you make decisions that you really don't want to make.  Or some of you, because of circumstances that life threw at you, you're a single mom with several kids, you're just going from paycheck to paycheck, barely surviving, your house is falling apart, you're just barely putting food on the table.  Can I just throw this out there?  The church would be a much better place if there weren't so many liars and pretentious people in it.  And what I mean by that is why don't you let us help?  Why don't you quit pretending?  Why don't you ask?  We'd love to come over and fix a hole in the wall.  We'd love to come over and help?  Why don't you make it be known that you're barely surviving and let us help?  We've got people here who run companies.  Maybe they have a better job for you.  But we're not going stumble onto that; there's 5,000 of you.  You've got to let us know, and then we'll be there.  Ask around.  We will.  We'll do everything we can. 

 

And then I want to talk about this.  Let's just say you come here every weekend or fairly regularly but you belong to and give to another church.  Let's chat about that for just a second.  Historically what I do here and if you're a member here, you know I do this.  Historically what I do in this moment for this sermon is I tell you that you shouldn't come here, that you're not welcome here and you're a life-sucking leach that needs to go home.  Is that about accurate?  But I've kind of softened on that stance for two reasons.  First, every time I do that, we grow by 400 the next weekend.  It's like people won't believe it.  They're like, “You've got to come, dude.  You've got to hear this.  This dude told us that we weren't welcome and that we're life-sucking leaches.  Come on.  Oh, you go to Irving Bible?  Who cares?  Just come listen.”  So I'm not going to do that.  And then here's the other thing.  I've got to know some of you in that wrestle and I get what it's like to feel a loyalty to a place but at the same time feel like God's moving you on and kind of wrestling through that.  I understand that.  But what I would tell you is that you need to press into the Lord and find out where you're supposed to be.  I think we're in a real dangerous time where we can mistake the church for some kind of ecclesiological buffet where you like the preaching here and the singing here.  And what ends up happening is what was meant to cause us to belong and to sacrifice and to serve instead becomes kind of this goods to be consumed.  And so if you like the way I preach, I'm really grateful for that but you know we give everything away, on the podcast or on our server.  You can get every sermon we've ever preached here for free.  Even if you buy CD's, it's at cost.  Anything we make over and above that goes into benevolence.  Do you like the music here?  Okay, get the CD.  You can podcast those, you can buy a CD.  So get it, enjoy it and quit coming here.  Or belong and become a part of our family.  But you need to wrestle through that.  If you're on staff somewhere else and it's just a tough place, you're always welcome here.  Come, refuel, worship with us and get back to the plow.  I've been there. 

 

Now one of the great things about leadership here is I can stand up and say all these things here without any fear, without a glitch in my spirit because I know we've sought the Lord and we've heard from Him and God never leads you in places where He doesn't provide.  Here's a small example.  At the beginning of '07, there was a good argument, what I would call “robust dialog” between the elders about whether or not we should be saving money toward the purchase of buildings.  We knew that we were hitting a breaking point, we knew there was coming this clog up that was going to make it where people couldn't come anymore and we were turning people away, we knew it was coming.  So the idea was, “Hey, let's take from this, let's take from this, let's take from this and let's save money so when a building became available, we could do something about it.  And there was robust dialog for an extended period of time about what our philosophy was going to be on that.  And in the end, although it was very, very, very smart business to do so, we felt like the Lord was saying, “Why don't you let Me handle that?”  And in a year where we had not savings in order to buy a building, God brought us two.  Not just one, two.  And so here's the great news.  The great news is we have this money.  The bad news is it's in your pocket.  That's really a horrible joke.  It really is.  Like, once it came out, I was embarrassed.  And so here we go.  I love pastoring this place.  Like I'm growing into a Dallas guy.  I'm not naturally one, but it's feeling more and more and more like home.  And for all He's done in five years, where might He be taking us?  People ask me all the time “What's your vision for us ten years from now?”  I wish I had a great answer.  I'm just like, “I'm hanging on for dear life.  I have no idea.”  I mean, I know where we want to be: deeper.  I know what we want to be: more powerful in the Spirit.  I know what we want to be: more effective at engaging our community.  I know where I want our money: I want us to be able to give more away than we are.  I can answer those things.  It  should be a fun ride. 

 

Let me pray.  “Father, thank You for our time together.  I thank You that You lead us and guide us and You take us to where You want us and we're not going to be lacking there.  And so I know we're going to need about $40.000 more a week starting in just a few weeks.  At the same time, I think our members know that we have an Albertson's that's going to need chairs and it's going to need children's areas and it's going to need microphones and all that stuff.  And so I know for us financially, it will be very similar to '07.  And so God, I pray that You would stir people's hearts up towards You and towards this place.  And I know some are so new to this that they didn't even know they should give or are required to or called to.  I pray that You would give us hilaron spirits, just hilarious spirits that give, not out of compulsion and not out of fear, but they give because they're free.  Those are rare people.  I pray that You would increase their numbers here.  I thank You that money is never about money.  You don't command us to give because You don't want us to have but because You're much more interested in a free soul than You are trinkets and toys.  I thank You that this is not our home, that we are transient.  We love You.  It's for Your beautiful name.  Amen.”  