Hey how are we?  You look good in your Christmas shirts and your Christmas sweaters...even some Christmas cologne I smelled when I came in.  If you have your Bibles, turn to 1 Timothy 4.  This week between Christmas and New Years, it always reminds me of when I was teaching in Abilene, and here's why.  At the beginning of every Fall about a week before classes start and all the students started getting there or even in the spring, there was an optimism in the air that could literally be felt.  I mean everyone, regardless of background, regardless of past, regardless of academic achievements, everybody came in feeling like that semester was the semester.  And there was a fierce commitment to academia that week leading up to actually having it.  There was this, “I'm going to get my paper done early, I'm going to do the reading assigned to me and ace my quizzes, I'm going to take this seriously and I'm going to get the 3.8 to the elusive 4.0 this semester.  I'm going to do it.”  And optimism was crazy.  Now all of it evaporated by week three when intramural football started, but for that week leading up to when you got the syllabus, there was this anticipation that we as students and even we as teachers could be more than we have historically been if we would just be a little more disciplined, if we could just think a little bit more, if we could just not do this, if we could do this more.  There was an optimism about that semester.  And I think what happens this week is this week in American culture is the adult version of that.  And I know that to be true because I'm going to go into the gym like I always do, at the same time I always do next week and there will be 400 new people there, and they will not be there in February.  But they're going to be there, they're going to be misusing equipment, you're going to have to tell one guy, “That's a water fountain, buddy.  You can't tell that when you push that bar water's coming out of the deal?  Seriously?”  And then come February, they'll all be gone.  Maybe four of them will stick and become part of the early, early morning crew.  Now, if there's only one week a year where we have any kind of introspection at all, any kind of “Who am I?  Could I be better?  Could I walk deeper?,” if there's only one week, if I only get one week of that, then I want to take a shot at it.  I wanted to do whatever I could as long as you are thinking deeply about your life to try to engage you to try to think even deeper than deep. 

 

And so that brings us to 1 Timothy 4.  I'm going to have to wade through some of this stuff with you and then we'll get to where we want to be, but I want you to feel the weight of the whole text.  So we're going to start in verse 1 of 1 Timothy 4.  “Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times...”  Now let me stop and clarify here.  This is not the six weeks leading up to the return of Christ.  “Latter times,” this little Greek phrase has to do with the period of time between the ascension of Christ and the return of Christ.  So it's been called the Church Age or the Age of the Church.  And so, while the church is here, we are in the latter times.  A thousand years ago was in the latter times.  Now look at what's going to happen in the latter times.  “Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,...”  Now I want to stop there and just tell you.  Whether it's just business or whether it's the church or whether it's an athletic team, the second you're trying to go back to the glory days instead of pressing forward, it's over.  There are two reasons for that.  Firstly, there's never been “glory days.”  Anyone who says there has been has never read any history.  Like even some of my heroes, brilliant theological kind of cats, they would say, “Oh, I long for deeper days,” and then they reference this period of time that 2% of the earth's population could read.  So just because 7 people on earth thought deeper at that time doesn't make it a more deep-thinking time.  If you start referencing the reformation and Edwards and those times, the deepest thought that most people had back then was “stay alive.”  The fact that people fall away from the faith, it's not a modern issue.  It's not like in the last fifty to a hundred years people just started going, “I think something might be wrong with Christianity.”  No, it's always happened.  It happened in the New Testament, it happened while Christ even walked on the earth and it continues to happen today.  And here's why.  There will always be those who intellectually grasp the gospel and because of aptitude or discipline live conservative and moral lives.  Like there are certain children, certain people who are born and they don't need to learn the hard way.  You can just tell them, “Don't touch that.  It's hot.” and their thought is, “I shouldn't touch that.  It's hot.”  But then other people are born and you say, “Don't touch that.  It's hot.” and they'll go, “We'll see about that.”  And I say that because I have two kids.  Now, there will always be those who grasp the gospel intellectually who are conservative and bent behaviorally, morally but in the end they do not have a heart that longs to please God.  So although they can grasp religion, and they live well, in the end they have no intention, no thought no heart to live in such a way that pleases God.  Now I'm not talking emotion.  I'm not talking any of that.  Because I think you can be living in a way that's not pleasing to God and feel the weight of it and have a heart that wants to but struggles.  I think that's absolutely legitimate for anyone who's ever tried to follow Him.  But there are those who grasp it intellectually, live it out conservatively in terms of morality but don't have a heart that loves God.  Now, Hebrews 3 says that that type of person is in a lot of danger.  It doesn't say that they're going to fall away, but it does say that they're in a lot of danger.  And listen, there are two views of how you should preach and teach people.  There are people who would never make you question your salvation and who would make you feel good about yourself and make you leave here chipper.  And I want to leave here chipper.  But in the end, it's been my thinking that the largest act of love that I can give you is just to preach the truth to you unapologetically.  And if that means you leave here questioning, then you leave here questioning.  Because if you leave here thinking deeply about where you are, where you you land, where you stand and what's really going on in your spirit, then that's a win far more than you feeling good about yourself if you're in danger.  So there are going to be times where you just leave here and it's going to be weighty and we feel a little dirty and we feel like we were happier before we came.  There are going to be those times.  If you can't live with that, you're in the Bible Belt so you can go two blocks in any direction.  If were were in Seattle or somewhere like that, there ain't nowhere else to, baby.  But that's not the case here, they're all around you.  But that's always been my philosophy.  So if you leave here going, “Oh, I have an intellectual understanding and I try to live a good life, but I don't really know if I have a heart that pleases God” and you're nervous about that, I'm okay that you're nervous if it helps you to really look deep in your heart. 

 

But now these people aren't led astray by some demon popping up in their room going, “Come on, let's get out of here.”  Because all of us would be like, “No, you're a demon.  I'm not following you.”  So this works itself out in a certain way.  Nobody goes, “Oh the devil!  Sure, I'm right behind you.”  So let's look at how it happens.  “Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and teachings of demons, through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,...”  So men and women are being led astray away from Jesus, away from the gospel by liars who have insincere spirits whose conscience has been seared.  Now, I'm learning this as I mature.  I am learning that when I flip though the channels, don't stop on religious television.  Just get to SportsCenter and leave it alone.  Because about a year and a half ago, Lauren and I were sitting on the couch, I was flipping through and was like, “Oh, let's hear what this guy has to say.”  And one of the things he said was, as he was talking expressly to widows, that if they were afraid of not being able to pay their rent and not being able to survive, that if they would in faith sow into this ministry, then God would overwhelmingly provide.  And I started splotching up and thinking obscenities.  I confessed them.  And I thought to myself this fool has no fear of God.  And then I did that thing were I was like, “God, why don't You kill him?  Why do You let this guy on television?  Why don't You kill him?”  And then God came back with a real nice, “Well, why don't I kill you?”  And I was like, “Mercy.  I love Your mercy.”  Now, if you've ever wondered, and this isn't just religiously, how a grown man, a grown woman can look you in your face and with what feels to be authenticity absolutely lie to you, lie to you, lie to themselves, be a wicked person and have no concept of it, the reason is their conscience has been seared.  The conscience is that thing inside of us that goes behavior is either correct or incorrect.  And once that's been seared or scarred, then people no longer have capacity to go right and wrong and they're capable of in all authenticity in them lying to you.  And this is what's happening theologically here.  By the way when this is full blown, we call it a sociopath in psychology, people who can murder someone and then go home and kiss their wife and children.  So the men who are teaching in this time period, they're leading people astray by being very insincere, being liars but not having a problem with it. 

 

And let's look at exactly what they're teaching.  And I giggled when I read this because it sounds a lot like Evangelicalism at times.  Listen to what he says, not the exact commands but what's behind them.  “...through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared, who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods...”  Now, I'm going to stop here.  What they're doing is defining spirituality by what you don't do.  They're saying what gives you right standing with God is that you don't do this.  Does that sound familiar?  If you have any background in church it does.  “...who forbid marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.”  So Paul basically says, “Didn't God create Eve?  Didn't God say in Genesis 2 that 'For this reason a man will leave his mother and father and cling, cleave to his wife?'  Didn't God say, 'Be fruitful and multiply?'”  He's saying marriage is God's idea.  How can God forbid what was the first covenant that He built?  And then it's obvious that these teachers are trying to drag him back to the Jewish dietary laws.  And he's going, “No no no, that's over.”  I remember at children's church they had the felt board.  I can just remember this story on the felt board, I don't know why, the story of Peter taking a nap on his roof and God lowering a blanket filled with what was at that time viewed as unclean animals.  There was an alligator and a pig.  I don't know that those two were in there.  It's not in the text, but that was on the felt board that I saw when I was a kid.  There was an alligator in the blanket.  And God says, “Peter, get up and eat.  Make yourself something to eat.”  And Peter's like, “Never.  I would never eat unclean food.”  And God goes, “Who decides that it's unclean?  I'm God.  I made it.”  The gospel makes it now so that food is redeemed, marriage is redeemed.  It is sanctified.  This goes back to what we said last week on our Christmas service.  In Jesus' ultimate reality, everything has a depth to it.  Food has a depth to it, marriage has a depth to it.  It's not just the eating and living with someone.  It has depth, it has meaning, it has weight.  So now all of a sudden there's two things that should happen at lunch today for those who believe.  There should be an unreal gratitude because you're going to eat lunch in a way that most of the world won't.  And then the second bit of thanksgiving that comes in is how creative an brilliant that God is that He created those flavors.  I mean, that's God's idea.  God thought up the fajita.  He did.  It was God's idea.  God's like, “I'm going to make that part of the cow with these herbs with guacamole taste brilliant.”  So then now all of a sudden there's thanksgiving for what we've been given but thanksgiving for the creativity of God even behind that.  And now marriage, let me tell you something about marriage.  Marriage isn't, when all is said and done, about my happiness but about my sanctification.  God's going to put me to death in my marriage because that's where life is found.  It's a common misconception in American culture that marriage is for happiness.  You can't put two sinners together and get happiness for forty years.  Are you serious?  It's like, “Raised differently, think differently, testosterone – raised differently, think differently, estrogen.  Let's throw them in the same house and lock them in.  See what happens.”  You can't go into that going, “You know what, I'm going to get happiness every day, all day for the next forty years.”  Uh uh.  What you will learn is that you're selfish, self-seeking and most of the time wicked.  And because that gets revealed to you, you've got a chance at healing and giving those things up.  I might have just broken off a few engagements, but but let's keep going.  So He redeems it. 

 

Let's look at verse 4.  “For everything created by God is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.”  Once again, Jesus is behind it, ultimate reality.  I preached out of this text years ago at Metro, about 2-3 thousand 20 year olds.  And I walked off stage and a kid came up to me and said, “What about weed?”  And I said, “What?!?”  “If God makes everything and it's good and it's okay and as long as it's received with thanksgiving, what about weed?”  And so I'm like, “Am I on a hidden camera show for pastors?  Am I getting punk'd?  What's happening?”  And so I chatted with him for just a second.  I was like, “Okay, first of all are you high right now?  Because I'm not having this conversation if you are.  And if you're not, good, we can chat.”  The problem is, according to the Scriptures, is that you're to obey the laws of the land as long as it doesn't keep you from serving and following faithfully to Christ.  And the law says that it's illegal.  So we're done.  Now, when the Senate, when Willy Nelson finally gets his life-long mission of making that available to all of us at the 7/11, then we can have that talk.  But until then, it's illegal.  Quit buying nickel bags and walk away.  I have no idea why I told you that.  Let's go.  “If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus,...”  So that's what I'm trying to be today.  I'm trying to be a good servant of Christ Jesus and preach and teach His word.  That's what I'm trying to be.  You'll be the same if you'll say these same things to the brothers.  So if you say to those around you, “Spirituality is not determined by what you don't do but rather by submitting your heart fully to Christ,” that's the message of this text so far.  “...being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. 7Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths.”  Some of your versions will say “wives tales” or “old wives fables.”  That was an intellectual put-down in the philosophical debates of the 1st century if someone said that's an old wives tale.  Keep reading.  “Rather train yourself for godliness;...”  That word “train” is the Greek word gumnazo.  It's where we get our word “gymnasium” and it is literally translated “to sweat.”  Sweat yourself to godliness.  Now the reason why there's a lot of weight in this text is this just said that godliness doesn't just randomly happen.  Nobody stumbles into of falls into depth with Jesus.  Godliness is never an accident.  It's worked for.  Now be careful on that.  We'll get more into that in a second.  Here we go.  “Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training is of some value,...”  Now I want to stop there. Physical training, there is a way to live that brings energy and brings an elevated emotional state that's good.  Like if you go for a brisk walk, get a light sweat going, eat some fruits and vegetables, you're going to feel good an hour or two after that.  If you sit on the couch and eat a one pound bag of M&M's, an hour later you're not going to feel like you would if you had gone for a brisk walk and eaten healthy.  You're going to feel shame over here; you're not going to feel that over here.  There's a way to live that's wise in regards to what we eat, in regards to how we live, how active we are, but bodily training, physical training is limited in it's value.  And it's limited in two ways.  First, it's limited in extent.  And what I mean by that is you can eat completely healthy and you can be a chiseled Adonis and still have a broken soul.  Exercise and food will do nothing to remove bitterness, anger, resentment, unforgiveness, loneliness, despair.  Bench pressing isn't going to take care of that.  And so although working out and eating right can increase levels of good emotion and can bring about energy and self-esteem or whatever, in the end it's inadequate because it cannot affect the soul.  The second way it's limited is in duration.  And if you've ever worked out or if you've ever had a period of time where you were in great shape, you absolutely know this to be true.  In May, June, July and August, me and a buddy were training for a sprint triathlon.  A sprint triathlon is a short triathlon.  I'm not type A enough to do a full one, but I didn't get hugged enough by my dad growing up so I'm an achiever so I've got to do something.  Now, so a sprint triathlon is the perfect deal.  So we trained five-six days a week.  We were biking, swimming or running, one of those three.  In September, about three weeks before the triathlon I got on a plane for a 10 day trip and got very, very sick.  I returned home 10 days later and would get winded walking from my living room to the mail box and back.  Four months of training disappeared in 10 days.  It's limited in duration.  You might get to the place where after 15-16 months you might see a six-pack of abs, but you're a half-gallon of Blue Bell and two weeks away from an ab.  You've got to keep going.  You have to continually work out.  You have to continually watch what you eat.  And even then, if God grants you years, even then your body will eventually start breaking down and it will be over then.  It's limited.  Now, it's important.  You are responsible to steward the body you've been given for the glory of God.  So there should be at least some effort put into physical training.  It does have some value, but it's limited in value.

 

Now look at what he says next.  “Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way,...”  And so what we love to do is compartmentalize and go, “The physical is over here and the spiritual is over here.”  But he's saying the spiritual training, training in godliness has effects on everything, even the body.  And while training the body has no effect on the soul, training the soul does have effect on the body.  Here's where you see that playing itself out in Scripture.  King David, when it came to sin, was varsity.  He was a man who slept with somebody else's wife, got her pregnant and then had him killed so he wouldn't get caught.  And he hid it for quite a bit of time and got away with it if it wasn't for a prophet that God told who came out and busted him.  Now, here's what David would say years later about that time of hiding his sin and having this dark secret that nobody knew about.  He said, “When I kept quiet about my sin, my body wasted away.”  That darkness, secret wickedness inside of us, shame, fear, guilt, anger, it takes a toll on our physical being.  Let's keep reading because he finishes it out.  “Rather train yourself for godliness; for while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.”  Now, at the gym next week, most people aren't going to make it because they come in and they don't really know what they're doing.  They just have this kind of, “I'm going to get into better shape.”  People are going to go in there and they don't know what they're doing.  And so they're going to get on the elliptical machine because that's the easiest one and they're going to do a little elliptical.  And if they're a dude, they're going to do a little bit of bench press, because guys can't help it.  It's just like a tractor beam to the bench.  And they're going to do a little bit of this, a little bit of that, but there's going to be no plan, there's going to be no idea.  There's just an idea that “I want to be in better shape.”  And that's why, over a period of time, they're just going to drop out.  Because there's no regimen to it, there's no sense to it.  They just kind of wander around with their new iPod shuffle and then they disappear. 

 

Now, I think the same thing holds true spiritually.  I'm guessing that a good bulk of you in here...now not all of you, some of you got dragged in here by your wives and husbands and some of you got invited here by a friend...but the bulk of us in here, I think we want to be godly and we want to know Him and we want to know Him deeply and we want to be affected by Him and we want a heart that beats for Him.  We want that.  I don't think you're consistently in church if at some level you don't want that.  But I think wanting in inadequate.  And so here's what I want to do.  I want to talk about training in godliness.  And I want to do it very quickly because I think there are three ways you train yourself in godliness.  They're big and they're broad and they're somewhat ambiguous but I'll do my best to get into them so you'll have a little bit of an understanding of them.  At any given time you need to be in at least two of these three ways.  I think each one individually is strongly lacking.  But if you're in at least two of them, you'll be doing really well in terms of growing spiritually.  But I also want to throw this at you.  Spiritual growth is not a superhighway; it's a crawl.  And anyone who says, “Hey, you just do this for two weeks and you'll be floating around in Shekinah glory and healing diseases” is a liar.  They're a liar.  Spiritual growth is slow.  There are some that have this miraculous, powerful, road to Damascus, Holy Spirit, powerful conversion where one day they go from absolutely being pagan and the next day having the Scriptures memorized.  That is by definition miraculous.  And it's not most of our stories, is it?  No.  Okay, here are the three ways that you train yourself for godliness.  The first one is the one that you know about if you have any church background.  We'll call it the personal spiritual disciplines.  There's a great book on the personal disciplines by Richard Foster called “Celebration of Discipline.”  He's a Quaker so if you get it, there are some weird deals in there.  Like he'll be like, “Wake up in the middle of the night, light a candle and stare at it.”  Maybe not.  I tried it.  It was just weird, I was spooked out, I blew out the candle and went to bed.  So he's a Quaker so there's some weird kind of stuff in there but the personal disciplines are this:  Prayer, fasting, solitude...not isolation, solitude.  Those two ideas are different...Sabbath, simplicity, study.  These are the personal disciplines.  If you have any background in church, you've been told to read your Bible from day one, that you should read the Scriptures, that there should be prayer in your life.  We've given it all these goofy kind of names like quiet time or devotional life.  We kind of give it those phrases, almost all of them sound like punishment.  The disciplines are one of the paths to spiritual growth that I believe you should consistently be on.  I don't know that there will be any time in your life where in bulk you're nowhere near Scriptures, prayer, meditation, solitude, those kind of disciplines. 

 

They are a staple, a must, a meat for the Christian heart and mind.  But here's what I would tell you.  That is historically where the thing shuts down.  And the problem with that is that the spiritual disciplines are insufficient on their own.  And I know that I've got a Dallas Theological Seminary guy in here that's going to e-mail me, “Are you saying that the Scriptures aren't sufficient?”  No, I'm saying the sufficient Scriptures say there's more than just the personal disciplines.  Because the Bible, on top of saying that we should, we should study, we should be in the word, also says to not neglect the gathering of believers.  On top or the personal disciplines, we need to do life authentically and honestly and deeply with other believers.  And I'm not talking about guacamole at a game.   Now guacamole can be holy if prepared correctly.  But you hanging out with people who moderately like Jesus like you do is not going to magically produce some kind of spiritual depth.  It's just not.  You need deep relationship with other believers.  And I'll tell you where it rears its head more often than not.  It rears its head in the good times, but it really rears its head when things get difficult.  The need for fellowship, the need for one another, the need for not a theological, philosophical lesson but empathy.  The day after Christmas, Shane and Jill Steinbach's 15 month old daughter, Eva, had a massive seizure that deprived her brain of oxygen for quite a bit of time and killed large sections of her frontal lobe.  They're dead, they're not coming back.  Your frontal lobe is where your personality is and where your motor skills are.  So we got the call and hopped in the car and ran down to Children's in Dallas.  We walked into that waiting room, and it was packed.  There were people from their home group, people they've done life with and members of their family.  And everybody's doing the same thing...crying.  I'm not trying to make sense of it because I don't know that you can.  They were just crying.  You would be a word that I won't say to walk into that room and try to hand out a theological lesson.  So we cried.  And then we went in and laid hands on her little body and asked Jesus to do the miraculous.  We prayed and prayed and prayed and cried and cried and cried and prayed and cried and prayed and cried and then went home.  We did they're still there.  And when she wakes up from her coma, if she's got zero personality and she's got no ability to move, then we'll continue to pray and we'll continue to pray and we'll continue to pray.  Because the thing that sets us apart is hope.  Or John and Lexie Ledbetter, whose son Caden, two years old has advanced cancer and on Friday had all of his stem cells replaced.  He's in the hospital right now with a white blood count of zero, which means any little bug will take his life from him.  Two weeks ago, we prayed for little Caden in this back room, I and the elders did.  And we laid hands on him and we asked God for the mercy over him, for Christ to heal him and to protect him.  And that room was packed with people who love them, people who long for them.  And the thing we all had in common again was tears.  The personal disciplines, they're profoundly powerful and in that moment I believe they're a fuel cell that you draw of, but in that moment what you want is empathy, someone to hurt with you not someone to make sense of it.  You can't make any sense of that.  Presence is unbelievably powerful in that moment.  We need each other.  We're all going to have days that we doubt, we're all going to have days that we hurt, we're all going to have days where we're just questioning the validity of any of this.  That's why we so desperately need one another.  Fellowship.  So, we need the personal disciplines, we need fellowship with one another.

 

And then the third line is what I would just call biblical counseling.  This is people who can guide you into real personal introspection.  They can help you see how you got to the idolatry you got to or how you got to the pride that you got to.  And although I think fellowship and discipline should be pretty constant, counseling is one of those deals that can come and go.  Sometimes you hit walls and you need a guide.  It's just the truth, man.  Sometimes you hit a wall and need a guide.  That's what Recovery does, that's what the steps do, that's what counseling does.  Sometimes you need a guide. 

 

Now, all three of these in and of themselves are lacking.  The disciplines tend to not push real, deep authentic relationships.  And like I said, a deep mind and deep thinking that doesn't lead to deep living is perfect for an author but nobody else.  Like I'm grateful for the desert fathers who went out and did nothing but went out did nothing but think about God and wrote books on it, but all of us can't head to the desert now, can we?  So I'm grateful for those guys, but deep thinking needs to lead to deep living.  And the disciplines on their own tend not to lead to deep relationships but deep thinking, what I like to call “theological assassins.”  I don't know if you've run into one of those, but stay in church long enough and you'll find one.  The problem with fellowship is that fellowship in and of itself is not going to produce deep growth.  It's just not.  And honestly, I think this is the mistake that most Evangelical make more than it is the disciplines.  We know we should do the disciplines and don't, but we love fellowship.  So we can get together with our home group, we can get together with other people, but you and I well know that that doesn't bring about spiritual depth.  And the problem with counseling is that it's usually done outside of the church over here.  And so what ends up happening is you have somebody with whom you're honest here that's helping you work through your issues separate from your actual life.  And so if you're still living the lie over here but being honest over here, this might be good enough for a season but eventually you're going to need to be honest over here too.  Because no man can truly be alive if he's lying.  So each one of these has its merits; each one of these has its drawbacks.

 

I was a horrible student growing up.  I even spent a little extra time in the 8th grade.  I mean, I was just never good at it.   It just wasn't my thing, which is problematic when school's not your thing and you're a 4th grader.  I don't know why but my mind works in a weird way.  I've never been lazy.  I'm a reader, a studier and a thinker, but I just didn't do well in school.  And I used to go back and dream and fantasize about what my life would be like if I played it out differently back there.  Anybody else guilty of that?  Here's a simple example.  I've been trying to learn Spanish for two years.  It's not going well for me.  Two years in and I'm still pretty much where I was when I began, except now I can point to stuff and say what they are.  But I still can't have a conversation.  I mean, I can say, “Como se llama?  Me llama Mateo.”  But there's been no real growth.  And so I think back and go, “Man, if I had taken that more seriously in high school and college, I'd be fluent right now.  How great would it be to be fluent right now in that?”  And I'd spend all my time in my mind thinking about how much better I'd be at 33 if I had played my cards differently back there.  Anybody else guilty of that?  Yeah, all of you except you liars.  Now here's what I realized, and I'm ashamed to say this.  Here's what I realized three years ago.  I realized that that doesn't have to be how the rest of my life plays out.  I realized that I can start making steps right now that are going to drastically affect five years from now for me.  Like, two years in trying to learn Spanish, I feel like I'm no better off.  But three years in, maybe, just maybe I'll be able to put together sentences and not just point and say the word, “mirror.” 

 

Here's what sets apart godly, deep men and women from people who go to church.  Because I think this is profound.  Maybe it's not.  The want to doesn't set them apart.  Because we all want to; it's what we're here for.  We all want to, we want to be deeper, we want to know Christ, we want to have a heart that beats for Him.  We want to.  The difference isn't the want to.  The thing that sets men an women apart when it comes to depth of life and depth with God is the question “How?  How will I...?”  Because people aren't going to get into shape this year thinking, “I'm going to get into shape this year” but have no plan, no how that's going to happen.  And as I've talked with a lot of believers over these last five years of being here, most of them have the same journal entry every day.  “I need to do this...I need to quit...I need to stop doing this...I need to start this...I need to...”  And the thing about spiritual growth is the impetus or the desire to has been given to you by the Holy Spirit so that that's an invitation by God to grow into the fullness of Him.  And so He who invites will absolutely provide the path.  So I think the question we've got to answer is:  How?  You can't go, “Man, I just feel like I need to know the word better than I do, that I need to pray more than I do.  I need to get involved, I need to plug in, I need to...” and then just walk out of here knowing that you need to.  You're not going to accidentally stumble into that, and there's no preacher alive who's good enough to be adequate for spiritual formation in his 45 minutes with you a week.  And if you're viewing this a spiritual formation for you, this is horrifically lacking.  And give it time, I will eventually bore you.  Give it time.  You will eventually grow tired of me.  Once again, great news.  There's a thousand other churches that you can move onto, live vicariously through their pastor, never learn to feed yourself, do it again, do it again, do it again, die.  Or you can finally own it.  And I'm not saying that you finally start reading the Bible in January and that by February all of a sudden there's going to be all this depth and meaning and all these things.  No, we're just obedient today.  That's what it is.  It's just today.  Like I have guys that call me all the time who are like, “How do you prepare?  How do you teach?  How do you preach the way you preach?  How do you do...?”  In the end, I'm like, “Man, I've been doing this for 15 years at least twice a week.”  That's part of it.  I've been reading my Bible for 18 years now at least three or four times a week.  That starts adding up.  I've been in aggressive counseling during at least three seasons of my life.  I've hit walls that had no answers, I've got very confused, didn't know what to do with it.  I needed a guide.  I've tried to build deep, deep relationships with other men that I can do life with deeply.  I don't have to pretend, I don't have to lie and I don't have to be pastor to them.    But I didn't do that in '07.  I've been trying to do that since '94.  Alright, so how?  That's the question you've got to ask yourself.

 

Now, here's the great news if you're a believer.  The grace of Christ covers it all.  You're going to stumble and fall.  You're going to blow it.  It's coming.  I mean, some of you aren't going to make it to your car.  That's what makes grace so profound.  I'm telling you, the best imagery of the grace and mercy of Christ that I've ever seen is my daughter learning to walk.  Because she didn't really walk.  She stood up and let go of the coffee table and her fat head fell forward which created momentum.  So she stuck out her foot so she wouldn't die.  And then momentum really got going and she stepped, stepped, stepped and fell on the ground.  I mean, she took two steps and fell on the ground.  Do you know what we did?  Exploded, e-mailed, called, “She's walking.  She's amazing.  She's tearing it up.  I clocked her at 4.2.”  All of a sudden I've got nothing.  Do you remember, for those of you who have kids?  Do you remember?  There's this pride and this joy and it's just this amazing thing that just happened.  No, her fat head pushed her forward.  That's nothing to be celebrated.  The kid just, momentum got her.  And I just remember all of that and God going, “What immense joy for just two steps.  Are you tracking with me, Matt?  What immense and penetrating joy over two steps.”  It's just so hard to get into our heads that He loves us, isn't it?  Like that He loves us now.  The fact that I'm going to screw up really bad this week doesn't put Him towards me, but that the cross of Christ paid that bill and there will be an explosion of joy in heaven for two steps.  Jesus loves me now.  He's not disappointed in me.  He's not disappointed in you.  We might not be where He wants us yet, but you know what?  My son is still in a diaper, but I don't change the diaper and get all enraged by it.  I know that one day he won't be.

 

How?  That's the question that you've got to answer.  It's what sets godly men apart, godly women apart from neat Christian church folk.  The how.  “How” is the obedient word.  “Okay Lord, how?”  And that's why the road is so narrow, because nobody likes that question. 

 

Let's pray.  “We need Your help.  We're prone to wander.  We like this world more than we should.  We're lazy and I could go on and on and on about the issues we have.  Help us, Jesus.  I pray that maybe just a few would ask how.  I'm not naïve enough to believe that we will in bulk, but maybe one, maybe two, maybe a few men who, in ten years from now, will become elders of this place because they ask how now.  Help us.  We need You.  It's for You beautiful name.  Amen.”  