This week, for us as your pastors and elders, has been somewhat of a confirmation of what we have hoped so much for, prayed so much for, fasted so much for and worked so hard for for the last five years.  So let me take you on that journey, what I’m talking about there, and then we’ll talk about our future a little bit out or Romans 12.  Just six years ago, the Village Church ran under 150 people total on a given weekend.  And so I was called as pastor.  And my passion was depth over width, and that was going to be our mantra here.  So we had no budget for marketing, we had not budget for mail-outs, we had not budget for billboards, because we thought we were going to grow deep.  And we thought as we grew deep, people would be added by transformed lives being seen and experienced in our community.  That was the hope, but it just went differently very early on.  And before we knew it, we were packed out in our little 400 seat auditorium.  And so we added a service, but it wasn’t three months later that we had to add another.  So we were at there services and then we were at four services and then we were at five services and then we were at six services: two on Saturday night, two on Sunday morning and then two on Sunday night.  And after about a year of that, I kind of just had a breakdown.  It wasn’t anything crazy.  I didn’t sleep with my secretary (my secretary was my mom at the time).  I didn’t steal any money.  Shelia Schroyer in our finance department, you’d have a better shot knocking off Fort Knox than taking a penny out of this place.  And I didn’t get busted with meth.  I just went to bed one night and didn’t wake up for eight days.  So that’s when we went, “Okay, something’s got to change here.”  But here was our problem, and I promise you I’m making no accusations on anyone else.  We didn’t want to build the monster.  We didn’t want to spend $50-60 million on a facility that would sit empty for five or six days a week.  We just didn’t want to do it.  We were heavily involved in China at the time building hospitals, building schools, that type of thing.  We just didn’t want to take resources that we were pushing to the most impoverished people we could find and build some monster for us.  I didn’t know how you could teach mission with your mouth and then build a building that communicated the opposite.  And so we said, “Okay, what are we going to do?  Because something has to give.”  And so we blew out these back walls.  You can see the two eaves, those used to be our Sunday school rooms.  People go all the time, “How do you progress?  How do you kill sacred cows?”  We rarely had to put a bullet in sacred cattle, the growth took care of it.  And so we made our auditorium bigger, and we went back down to four services.  It wasn’t six months later before four became six again.  So that left us wondering, “What are we going to do now?”  So we had this idea about maybe having video as an option here.  But the thing was, we didn’t think it was going to work here.  We’re young, we’re jaded, we don’t think video will work.  And then we went, “Wait a minute, what if we don’t care if it works?  What if for the sake of long-term ministry and depth, what if we’re willing to kill off 1,400 people here?”  And so we prayed about it and we rolled our video.  And our two Sunday nights became our video services.  But here’s the thing, it didn’t work.  And by “it didn’t work” I mean it worked.  So our thing was, “Hey, this will buy us time, because we’re not going to add anything if we don’t have to.  We’ll just shut this mug down until the video services are filled.”  And the video services didn’t die. In fact, they shrank a little bit, but then they just grew larger than they were before.  And then we were like, “Oh no, what are we going to do?” 

 

So we just called the church to fast and pray, and we just prayed that God would do something miraculous.  Then we got a phone call and somebody wanted to know if we were interested in an old church building directly across from the third largest university in the state of Texas, the University of North Texas, and they would like to just give us that building.  And so we started the Denton campus.  We were like, “Well, we don’t really know what we’ll do there, so let’s just go full on video there.  Because even if it doesn’t work, the worst case scenario is someone just gave us $4 million.”  So we rolled out video there and put Beau Hughes, who is just brilliant, as a campus pastor.  And here we are just a little over a year later and the campus runs a little over a thousand, and in the last few months they’ve started turning away from the 11:00 service.  So then we’re like, “Oh wow, the same problem in two places.  Brilliant!”  And so we kept going, “Okay Lord, what do You want to do here?  How are we going to do this?  Because we’re running nine services now, our numbers press 6,000 on a given weekend.  What are we going to do?  What’s the answer here?” 

 

So by the faithful prayers of the saints, Albertson’s ran out of customers.  So the grocery store unfortunately closed down.  Del Steele, who was the chairman of the elders for so many years, just this last year went home to be with the Lord.  He was always telling me as early as three months in to our space issues, “Don’t worry.  Kroger, Tom Thumb, Albertson’s, one of them ain’t going to make it.”  So here we were.  We were still across the two campuses and had no long-term solution for what was to come.  Then the Albertson’s went out of business.  So here’s what we had to do.  We were a church made up of predominantly 20 year olds, and the Albertson’s deal was a very small window.  So we simply went, “We need $4 million in eight weeks.”  And so I went up on stage, and we did our capital campaign titled “We Need $4 Million.”  And you did it.  I mean, it was insane.  There were like little kids bringing these things of change.  We would have these envelopes that people would bring us in the back and go, “I can’t fit this in the envelope.”  They were waiters and waitresses and they had all $1 bills.  And so we bought it, and then we got in there and realized we couldn’t renovate it, we had to retrofit it.  It’s not a building that’s designed for what we wanted to use it for.  For example, there’s one toilet.  That ain’t going to work.  It’s just a shell, which means that when the tiny little air conditioner that doesn’t have anywhere near the tonnage to cool it kicks on when you and I were in there, we couldn’t hear each other talk.  So the price tag came in at $10 million and we were like, “We just dug the change out of our couches to buy that building.  Where in the world are we going to get $10 million?”  The other big part of our philosophy is that we won’t incur any kind of debt that forces direction for us.  So that means if we get any opportunity to do good in another part of the world, we can’t say no to it because we’ve got debt.  We’ve just philosophically said that from day one.  We’re not going to do it that way, no matter how much that stings us.  And so last May we voted as a covenant member body that if we could come up with $3 million cash, you would allow us to finance an additional $7 million.  And so we set out to see what we could do. 

 

Over the last few months, here’s what’s happened.  We have raised $1.76 million in cash and we knew this was coming so we already allocated close to $2 million in reserves towards this project, which brings our cash total to $3.76 million.  In addition to the cash, you have made $4.9 million in faith promises towards the project, which brings our total to $8.66 million.  Now I’ve asked the Finance Department to run some doomsday scenarios for us, and here’s what they did.  Despite the fact that we’ve grown by a thousand each year for the past five years, let’s say we don’t grow hardly at all the next five years.  And let’s say that you give no more than you’ve historically given.  And on the faith promises, let’s say only 75% of you actually come through on what you promised to give.  With all those, that’s worst case scenario, could we still, out of the operational budget, fund the $1.34 million without it affecting ministry or direction?  So they ran the report, and we can do it.  So on Wednesday night around midnight, the elders hashed through any scenario you you can imagine along with the Financial Department.  They ran the numbers for us.  I just colored, but they worked different scenarios.  And they unanimously decided to proceed with the Flower Mound Expansion.  So let me tell you what it looks like.  The ramp up to the project is going to take longer than we were initially told.  We won’t be able to start the project until probably January 5th.  The project’s going to take longer than we were initially told.  Instead of the original 27 weeks, it’s going to take 39 weeks.  So we will begin gutting that place and getting it ready to get into it on January 5th.  It should be ready to move into in early October, so almost a year from now.

 

Now I came home from that meeting, just sat on the couch and grabbed my journal and just started writing some thoughts because I thought God had given us a real gift here.  And let me clarify exactly what I’m talking about, and that will bring us to Romans 12.  By gift I don’t mean that we were able to buy the building.  That was absolutely a gift.  Where do 20 year olds come up with $4 million cash?  Even the fact that we’ve been able to raise $8.66 million right after that $4 million is other worldly.  I’m not talking about those things.  I think those things are miracles, they are gifts, they are a sovereign act of God.  But here’s what I thought to myself.  Because of the growth here, which we were not prepared for, we weren’t ready for the tidal wave of humanity that showed up in this place.  And so for the last five years, we’ve just been trying to find a place to connect you.  And as we have been frantically trying to connect you to this place, we haven’t really been able to build out those pieces that create depth in you like we want.  When it comes to your knowledge of who God is, what it looks like to follow Him, what it looks like to be His people, we haven’t been able to build those things out like we wanted to.  And so here’s what I think the gift is, and this is probably going to sound a little crazy.  We can’t grow this year.  Where are they going to sit?  Your lap?  It’s going to be impossible for us to grow like it’s been the last six years.  And since there will be a little bit of a reprieve on the tidal wave of humanity coming in,  I thought, “Hey, let’s dream a little here what we need to think about over the next year to get ready for creating much more space.”  Because if what’s been historically true continues to be true, the second we open up space it’s going to fill.  So what do we need to do over the next year to get ready to be all that God would have us be so we don’t grow miles wide and stay inches deep?

 

There are two things I think we need to discuss.  One is your pastors and elders here, and the other is you.  And we’ll start with your pastors and elders, which brings us to Romans 12.  “I appeal to you therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship.  Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect.”  This isn’t the only place in the Scriptures that you’re going to see this idea of being transformed by the renewal of your mind.  What happens is the truth of God is taught, preached, proclaimed and the Holy Spirit empowers that and then it leads to transformation.  It’s not conforming to a pattern of religion or a moral code, but rather being transformed from the inside out.  So there is a responsibility on elders and pastors and teachers to design the church in such a way, to work out how we do things here in such a way that you can hear the word, lean the word, be engaged by the word and by the power of the Holy Spirit in that be transformed.  And this is where I think we’ve failed you.  That first year we grew by a thousand, we were just looking for places to put you.  We had no Sunday school space, we didn’t have enough home group leaders.  And so people would come up and go, “I can’t find a home group,” and I would be like, “Do you want to lead one?  What’s your name?”  And so then we had people leading groups that probably shouldn’t be leading groups.  So you started getting some unhealthy things that occurred, and then you had to go in and clean that up.  So we had no places in which we could actually teach you what it looked like and what it meant to follow Jesus Christ.  And since you’re American, I know you’re probably going, “Well isn’t that my job?”  No.  Or yeah, part of it is, but part of it falls on elders and pastors.  So it was about two years ago that we saw this gap that we had places to put you now for the most part but that those places were really a lot of times shallow.  So if we were going to be a place of depth vs. a place of width, that had to be shored up, even if it meant shrinking us some.  So two years ago, we went back to the drawing board on a lot of things, and there’s been a lot of traction the last year or so. 

 

And there’s going to be some changes that are coming in 2009.  For instance, we’ve really started to rewrite our membership covenant.  If you don’t know what I’m talking about, back in my day you joined a church by walking up and shaking the pastor’s hand and he had no idea who you were.  And you were like, “I’ve got a letter.  I’m coming here by letter.”  And then they go, “Hallelujah!”  And they would stand you up in front of everybody, and it was like, “Brother Chandler has come to our church with a letter.  Are you guys alright with that?”  And everybody would be like, “Amen.”  Then, “Is there anybody who would dissent?”  And you’d hear crickets, because you don’t know him.  How could you say, “I don’t know.  He’s got beady eyes.  I just don’t like him.  Nay!”  And that’s how you became a member, but we didn’t want to do it that way.  We were like, “We want to know you, and more importantly we want you to know us.”  Like we had very strong theological convictions around certain things.  We are going to do things philosophically a certain way.  And so we started this membership class so we could impart that all to you, so you don’t start hanging out here, join and a year later go, “They believe what?  I am out!”  We would rather you be out much earlier than that.  And so we don’t want to hide anything.  We want to say, “This is who we are.”  And at the end of that, we’ll make a covenant with one another, both for what I am as a representative of the elders and the pastors here, what I am responsible for before God and then what you are responsible for before God.  But our covenant doesn’t read that well; it’s a little confusing.  So what we did is we took the Scriptures and said, “What is every command given to pastors and elders?”  And we typed those out.  And then we asked, “What is every command given to men and women in regards to the church?”  And then we wrote them out.  Then we said, “What are the bare minimums of what it means to be a Christian?” and we wrote them out.  And then we said, “What are our doctrinal distinctives?” and we wrote them out.  So now we’ve got this really beautiful document that we’ve already started rolling out to our leaders here.  And come January to February, we’ll start to roll it out to you.  In fact, if you’re already a covenant member here, you’ll get to read about it well before we start to roll it out on weekend services.  And we thought this is a great teaching document.  This is a great way to understand what the church is, what it’s not, who’s responsible for what and how you can hold me accountable. 

 

And then we thought we needed to do some work on groups.  There’s this weird thing happening in groups right now.  Part of it is that we just don’t have enough people.  Like in the east zone, we have no groups open in that area right now.  Between five and ten e-mails a week come in from that zone asking, “Where do I connect?  Where do I go?”  And our response right now is, “I’m sorry, there’s nowhere.”  So we’ve got to get better at groups.  We’re working on our own curriculum, we’re working at identifying curriculum.  We’ve set up strong training for our group leaders.  We’ve established certain new types of groups.  Like there’s starting point groups that are happening that are for those who aren’t believers or have just become believers to teach you the Scriptures, to teach you how to read the Scriptures themselves, teach you how to pray.  And then my own personal baby is we’re starting groups around Tim Keller’s book called The Reason for God, which is a modern day equivalent of Mere Christianity by C.S. Lewis.  It’s a profound book for skeptics.  Because there’s so many of you guys here.  My favorite part of the Village is that a quarter of you aren’t believers at all, you just keep coming here.  I keep telling you that God’s after you and is going to get you, but whatever.  So I thought, “Why don’t we get together and have something to drink and talk about it?  Why don’t we really look at your questions and whether or not they’re legitimate?”  And all this starts to change in 2009. 

 

And then one of the ways we want to teach is through seminars.  We started doing seminars last year, and they started working real well.  In fact, yesterday morning 480 men and women showed up for our seminar How to Study the Bible.  We have 480 people going, “Teach me how to study the Bible.  I’m not very good at that.  Help me.”  And so we lined up all these other seminars that we’re doing.  Let me read them out to you.  Pretty soon we’re going to do a seminar on One Way, One God and we really are going to look at it as powerfully as we can at the question:  With all the different religions, is there really one way and one God?  I don’t want to give away what we believe, but come to that, it will be great.  We’ve got one coming up with Darrell Bock from Dallas Theological Seminary.  It will be a Friday night block, and we’re going to talk about the gospel and politics.  It will be the week after the next President will be inaugurated.  And we just want to come together and go, “Okay, we belong to another kingdom.  What does that look like?”  If you’re a Republican or a Democrat, that’s secondary to the kingdom you actually belong to.  So how does that work itself out?  How are we men and women of God and yet in this type of government?  How are we engaged in this type of government?  So we want to teach on that.  As we got together and started talking about things we really need to address in the church body, we wanted to talk about God and  family.  At two points in the six years I’ve been here, we’ve had baby booms that will rival post WWII America.  There have been times where everyone was pregnant or had a baby.  And we’re actually hitting one of those strides again.  And so we wanted to be able to teach on God and family.  Because here’s the deal, I know the guys I disciple, the guys I walk with, the guys I’ve been pouring into, most of them didn’t have fathers.  Or if they did have fathers, those fathers were absentee.  I’ve had to teach some of our guys how to tie a tie.  No one ever taught them how to tie a tie.  Simple things, biblical things too, but sometimes they just don’t know how to grill a steak and you’ve got to teach simple things like that.  And so they don’t know that if you cook a steak in such a way that you have to put sauce on it, you’ve ruined it.  Seriously, that’s a church discipline issue here.  How are they supposed to raise sons?  How are they supposed to love daughters?  And so we want to take the Bible and say, “This is what the Bible says a father’s responsibility is.  This is what the Bible says a mother's responsibility is.  This is what the Bible says that unit’s supposed to do together.”  We want to break it down, every verse that it mentions.  We want to impart it to you.  We want to talk about God in marriage.  There is far too much Cupid, Roman type ideas of love around here and not the solid, ever-lasting, rhythmic love of the Bible.  There’s this cheap, sad love that everybody ascribes to in our culture vs. the steadfast love that God designed us to walk in.  We want to teach on that.  We want to do God and sex.  It will be a Saturday morning seminar for three and a half hours.  We want to take every text in the Bible that mentions sex, when it’s done properly, when it’s done improperly, how it works, freedoms within.  And we want to teach on that, because everyone else is talking about it, so the church can’t afford to be silent on it.  These are ways that we’re trying to, by the power of the Holy Spirit, see you transformed by the renewal of your mind.

 

Now there has to be this pervasive spirit that’s over all of this, so go to verse 3.  “For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned.”  So on top of all of this, we need kind of heavy spirit of humility on all of us as  we walk in these things.  And so here’s the problem with humility.  If you just teach humility, then people have a tendency to learn the language of humility but not necessarily walk in it.  Some of the most arrogant people I’ve met are people who understand humility intellectually.  So you get into those real weird paradoxical conversations where somebody’s bragging about their humility to you.  “I’m just really setting the pace for my crew right now.  I’m just walking in a lowliness that they’re not at.  But one day I’ll lead them there.”  I’m just confused.  This guy’s an arrogant humble guy.  So it takes more than just teaching on humility.  So then how do you position yourself to be a place of humility?  Well, I think the thing we’ve seen here over and over and over again is the thing that drives at us when we pray and we really humble ourselves before the Lord.  There’s a real spirit of genuine humility here.  And where we don’t do that and where “we’ve got it” and “we’ll handle it,” then you start to walk with a little bit swagger.  So the first Wednesday night, starting in January will be an elder led prayer meeting where we come together for no other reason except to humble ourselves before God and say, “We don’t know.  You do.  Please help us.”

 

And that brings us to this next block, and I’m trying what we’ve been so diligently working on in order for us to be faithful to God’s command for us to lead, shepherd and teach in this place.  And now I want to show you where we need each other and some of the onus that will be on you.  Look in verse 4.  “For as in one body we have many members, and the members do not all have the same function, so we, though many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another.”  So in order for me to be all that I’m supposed to be, I need you.  And in order for you to be all that you were meant to be, you need me.  If we’re going to be in this place all that God has to be in this city and in the world for His kingdom, then we desperately need one another.  We can’t be fully we if you can’t be fully you.  Maybe I can say it this way.  The more spectators we have here, the weaker we are.  The more people who come in week after week after week with no intention of hearing songs and sitting down, the weaker we are.  There’s a huge difference between going to church and belonging to a church.  Those are two different ideas.  There’s not a lot of Scripture that commands you to go to church.  There’s tons that talk about belonging to a church.  And then here in Dallas, it’s like an ecclesiastical buffet.  It’s like, “Ooh, I like the music here.  I like that over here.  Ooh, I’ll take some of that.”  It’s very hard to grow into the fullness that God has asked you to grow into without the relationships and the sacrificial service required in belonging to a place.  And for the record, I don’t care if it’s here or not.

 

Let’s keep going.  Verse 6, “Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us, let us use them: if prophecy, in proportion to our faith; if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching; the one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; the one who leads, with zeal; the one who does acts of mercy, with cheerfulness.  Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.  Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor.”  I love that last little tag line in verse 10.  “Outdo one another in showing honor.”  So here’s the game:  I will out honor you.  The first one to a hundred wins.  There’s this really weird thing that’s happening, and I think it’s probably due to podcasts and books and the shrinkage of the world that occurred because of the Internet.  All of a sudden you’ve got this idea, like this Christian Hollywood.  There’s superstars within Evangelicalism.  There really are superstars, and there are people that follow.  So what ends up happening is you get people who begin to misunderstand what the church is.  You begin to understand what the priesthood of believers are, and all of a sudden there’s this group of people who are the unimpeachable superstars, and you have no position or no role.  But that’s just so far from the truth and so crippling to what the church was meant to be.  Because according to this text and dozens of others, everybody needs to play their part well for the church to be all that she was meant to be.  And not only that but here’s the spirit that needs to be over all of it. 

 

Let’s do it this way.  Here’s the problem with drive-by guilting.  Let’s say I go, “We need this...we need this...we need people to step up here...we need people to do this...” and I just guilt people into doing what I want.  And people are like, “Oh, I’ve got to do something here.  I’m just sitting here like a bump on a log.  I’m dragging the church down.”  And you walk over to Connection Central afterwards and go, “I know.  I’ll be on the parking team.  I’ll do parking.”  And it just so happens that by the time all the wheels turn, your first weekend to park just happens to be the first freeze of the year.  So you show up and don’t know a lot about it and you don’t have gloves, you don’t have ChapStick and two people give you the bird.  So you’re like, “You’ve got to be kidding me.  I hate this.”  So you’re scheduled two weeks later and it’s a freeze that weekend too.  Except you’re just not feeling well that weekend now.  So you’re like, “Can you replace me, because I’m not really feeling well?  I mean, I’m coming but I just don’t think I need to be out in the cold.”  So what ends up happening is there’s this initial zeal, but it evaporates very quickly.  After a sermon that goes something like this, there’s this “Let’s do this!” that tends to be gone very quickly.  But what if the Holy Spirit would gift us with a heart that worked something like this, this “outdo one another,” where you’re out there in the freezing cold and you’re parking cars, and you’re out there in the cold so no one else has to be.  Because someone’s got to be out there.  And you’re going to make sure it’s nobody else.  That’s a different thing now, isn’t it? 

 

Or our covenant members in particular, when you’re pulling into the parking lot, your goal should be to park as far away from the building as you possibly can.  How can I outdo everyone else in honor?  When it rains here, the parking spots along the back fence there never fully drain.  There’s like five or six inches of standing water in 6 or so spaces.  The heart we’re looking for is the heart that goes, “I’ll park there so no one else has to.  My shoes will get wet so that no one else’s shoes will have to.”  Some of you may be like, “Well Chandler, these are $400 shoes.”  Okay, congratulations on your $400 shoes.  Only in the west would we take a necessity and make it a positional thing.  So congratulations on that.  The heart that we need here is the heart that says, “I’ll serve this body for the glory of Christ and for the good of the gospel, even if that means I’m cold, my shoes are wet and I just parked as far away from the building as I possibly can.”  It’s a zeal, a love for how God’s worked it out in the local context. 

 

Now I’ve gotten e-mails from some of you that say, “Well Matt, I just don’t see church membership in the Bible.”  And you’re right.  I can’t take you to a text that were it says, “You belong to a local church.”  But the Bible does say that within the local context of the church universal, that there are to be a group of elders that are Holy Spirit filled, God-loving, humble men.  You can read about these men in 1 Timothy and Titus.  Those men are called elders.  And they are to be in a mutual relationship of accountability with “members.”  And they have this relationship of accountability where the elders are responsible to lead, teach, shepherd and protect, and these men and women have been commanded by God to follow, to submit to and to walk in the direction of that place.  If there’s no such thing as local church membership, then those verses don’t make any sense.  I can’t show you a verse that says you have to be a member of a local church, but I can tell you that the Bible clearly says that you are to submit to and follow a group of elders.  So who are those elders?  And don’t read that wrong.  That’s not talking about older people, because Paul tells Timothy to “appoint” elders in every town.  And you can’t appoint age.  So are you responsible to follow all elders everywhere?  Take the fools at Westboro Baptist Church.  And some of you may be saying, “The Bible tells us not to call people fools, Matt.”  No it doesn’t.  It says to call people who aren’t fools “fools.”  But if you’re a fool...fool.  Selah.  If you don’t know who I’m talking about Westboro Baptist Church pickets the funerals of our dead soldiers because they believe God killed those men because of homosexuality in America.  So they’ll picket if a soldier dies in Iraq and there’s a funeral.  They’ll hold up signs that say “God Hates Fags” among other things.  This is who they are.  And they’re elder governed.  So do we have to submit to them?  Well the Bible does command you to submit to a body of elders.  So which elders?  Do you see where I’m going?  Or is my job as an elder is to speak into the direction, philosophy and theology of all churches everywhere?  No.  How would that even work?  I’m going to stand in front of God and give an account for the Village.  So if there’s no such thing as membership, then any text on eldership or you submitting to a direction doesn’t make any sense.

 

So here’s why I think we’ve been given a gift.  We have a year.  We have a year before there’s any significant space here again.  What if this year, with a great deal of ferocity, we strengthened what we do and strengthened, as best we can across nine services and two campuses, the communal life of this place?  What if you finally stopped going here and instead decided to belong here?  What if you finally plugged in for the first time?  And I’m not necessarily talking only about acts of service.  Can I speak to some things that are just constant problems here?  In the book of Ecclesiastes there’s this great verse that says, “The foolish man is silent while he burns.”  I’ll bring that into 2008.  You’re a moron if you’re on fire and you’re pretending you’re not.  So like as your flesh burns you’re like, “Roger, how are you?  I’m good.  Excellent.  Did you see that game last night?”  The Bible says you’re an idiot if you’re on fire and you’re not going, “Someone help me.  I’m on fire.”  So maybe you’ve been coming here for a few months, and maybe you’re on fire.  Maybe the relationship between you and your wife is very, very cold and you hardly talk and you hardly engage, and when you do it’s combative.  That’s not just going to get better.  Do you understand that?  That doesn’t just fix itself.  Come on to Thursday night, get into Reconciliation, get into those places where someone can douse the flames and help you.  Maybe you’re stuck in this little circular pattern of sin where you’ve got this thing that just kind of haunts you and you do better for a while, but then it just comes in and and owns you.  Come out on Thursday night to Recovery.  Let’s do work this year.  Let’s let the Lord work in our hearts and work in our marriages and work in our community and work in our lives.  Let’s look at the next year as a year to really dig in and prepare for what God has for us in the 5-10 years after that.  These things have to get stronger before we launch a third campus.  We’ve been looking at it and praying about it down in Dallas, but we’ve got to get stronger at these things first.  We’re going to move into that new facility, Lord willing, if everything goes as it looks like He’s designed it.   We’re going to move into there in October, which is going to create more space.  Before we actively anything else to go wide, we have got to work on getting deeper.  And so as your pastors and elders, this is how we’re going to work and war this year.  This is how we’re going to pray.  But at the end of the day, you’ll have to meet us somewhere in there.  This is my hope.  It’s my prayer.

 

Let’s prey, “Father I thank You for our time together.  I do pray as we’ve read these Scriptures that You will read us.  I pray that You would put some zeal and some passion in us to not go but belong.  I know that that won’t be as fast and it won’t be as easy as we wish it could be, but I don’t think that changes how necessary it is.  So help us.  I pray that You would strengthen us as the local context of Your beautiful bride.  I pray that we might continue to be obedient and long to follow You first, regardless of the cost.  And I pray that You would strengthen our ranks today.  It’s for Your beautiful name.  Amen.”  
