I don’t know that I believe that we’re getting progressively dumber as a society, but I’m almost there.  Just look back and read even simple things like letters that solders wrote to their spouse back home from a hundred years ago.  It was a different time.  Let me just say that entertainment was rare.  It wasn’t normative.  So if you go to be entertained by a play, by theater, it wasn’t a normative deal.  But now with all that we have to do and all that we have to plan, you’ve kind of got this dumbing down effect because our culture is precociously pragmatic.  Here’s what I’m talking about.  It’s the “I really don’t want to think about anything.  Let me tell you what I want, and you tell me six steps to get there.”  That’s our culture.  If you don’t believe me, go to the grocery store tonight and look at the magazine rack.  It doesn’t matter what kind of magazine it is, from Field & Stream to Hot Rod Magazine to Glamour to GQ, everything on the front page will say something like this, “Six ways to do this...Four ways to get out of this...Three ways to get to this...Nine ways to ensure this...”  That’s pragmatism.  And that pragmatism, that pressure from our culture has in a lot of ways been adopted by Evangelicals.  So that it’s a common thing to come into church and hear nothing about the character and nature of God or His gospel but rather, “Here is a behavior that you don’t want to do anymore.  Here’s six ways to stop doing that behavior...Here is a behavior that you would like to do.  Here are four ways to get to that behavior.”  Now the problem with that is without a knowledge of the character and nature of God and without an understanding of what the gospel is, all you’re going to get at the end of the day is moralistic deism, not Christianity.  It’s not biblical, historical, orthodox Christianity.  Instead, you’re going to get therapeutic “I don’t want to do it anymore.  My life stinks. I want to do better,” moralistic deism.  “Maybe God can do for me what I want Him to do for me.”

 

And so in my time here, I want to be as impractical as you can imagine.  I want to simply talk to you about what we believe as Christians concerning the gospel, what our message is.  And I want to do it two-fold.  I want to do it at 30,000ft.  Like if you’re up at 30,000ft and you look down on the gospel, what does it look like?  And then I want to talk about what it looks like on the ground.  Like if you got out of the plane and got on the ground and you weren’t looking down at the gospel but were in the middle of it, what would it look like? 

 

So the gospel at 30,000ft is simple.  Here’s what it is.  An all powerful, all knowing, triune God, out of the overflow of His own perfection, begins to create.  He created everything that is, He created it rhythmically and in shalom, in rhythm, at peace, functioning as He designed it to function.  He creates man and woman in His image and puts them in the garden so that everything they experienced within the garden created worship and gladness in their hearts towards the Creator.  So they ate food and they were like, “How amazing is Gos that He creates this!”  And they look out over all of creation and they go, “How amazing is God that He created this!”  And they grabbed a glass of water and they drank it and said, “How amazing is God that He created this!”  And they worked and it was work without toil.  And they said, “How amazing is God that He entrusted us with this!”  Adam wakes up and there’s a naked woman there and he’s like, “Thank You Lord for making this.”  It’s the first song in the Bible.  And on and on and on it goes.  It’s shalom, peace, rhythm, everything creating gladness in the human heart...everything.

 

The Scriptures tell us that God says, “I’m going to govern this,  You follow Me, you enjoy creation.  Don’t try to be Me.  You can’t be Me.  If you try to be Me, this is going to go horrifically wrong.”  And the man and his wife, deceived by the serpent, decide to try to be God themselves.  That fractures the universe as it was created.  Every bit of it, from single-cell organisms to mountains, everything that was meant to bring gladness to the man’s heart towards his Creator instead begins to terminate on itself.  Here’s what I mean.  Food no longer brings gladness towards the God of the universe but instead becomes gluttony or indifference.  Both are wicked.  When you go to dinner tonight, put food in your mouth, taste those flavors, have it fill your stomach, let it sustain your body and not give praise to the Author and Perfecter and Creator of that food, that makes you a blasphemer, a thief.  And it was gladness that was meant to be given to God that has terminated on you.  The same thing happened to wine.  It became alcoholism or indifference.  The same thing happened with relationships.  They became dysfunctional and broken.  It fractured everything, threw off shalom even at the cellular level and death is introduced into the world.  It’s not just the death of man but the death of everything.  The Scriptures tell us in Romans 8 that even creation has been subjected to futility. 

 

But God, being infinitely rich in mercy, comes in the flesh as Jesus, lives a perfect life, goes to the cross, pays the debt for that rebellion, is resurrected on the third day, calls to Himself the church (individuals that form corporate bodies), fills them with the Holy Spirit, sends them on mission to push back what is dark in the world to begin the restoration of Genesis 1 and 2 until His return and the new heaven and the new earth gets us back to what’s better than Genesis 1 and 2.  And that’s the gospel at 30,000ft. 

 

Now on the ground, it’s dirtier.  Right now, it’s a very popular thing to like the gospel at 30,000ft.  Because sin then is racism, injustice and poverty.  On the ground, here’s what the gospel looks like.  An infinite, ferocious, holy God creates everything for His own name, for His own renown, for the praise of His glorious grace and you as an individual, I as an individual, every one of us has mocked Him, belittled Him, stolen from Him, made light of Him and we have done it all gladly.  And God, because He is good, holy and just, is going to judge and damn every one of us rightly.  He is not wicked for this; He is good for this.  But being rich in mercy and wanting to display the infinite perfection of His grace, He comes in the flesh, lives the perfect life that He will impart to those who repent and believe.  He is arrested and begins to absorb the wrath of God towards those who would later believe.  He is beaten, He has the beard pulled out of His face, He is mocked, slapped, spat upon, struck, He is nailed to a cross where He is belittled and mocked, His lungs fill with blood, He cries out to the heavens, “It is finished,” and He dies.  He is resurrected by the power of God to show that all of God’s wrath towards those who would believe had been absorbed in that crucifixion.  He meets with the disciples and says, “Don’t start this yet, but when the Holy Spirit falls on you, go and tell all the nations of the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ, that I have absorbed the wrath of God towards those who would repent and put their trust not in themselves or an external moral religion, but in My sacrifice on the cross.  Go and tell them to be on mission till I return.”  And this is the gospel on the ground.

 

Now whether you’re at 30,000ft. or on the ground, the central component of the gospel message is the simple.  It’s the cross.  So I got a couple of you last week who were frustrated with me calling out our boy down in Houston.  So let me try to explain once again why I did it.  There were a couple of you who said stories like this, “Well, I have a friend who read his book, that got him interested in God, so he came to the Village and heard about the gospel and now he’s saved.”  That’s awesome.  I liken that to someone being converted to Christ after a loved one of theirs is killed in a car accident.  Praise God that it happened, but I don’t know that it should be our philosophy of ministry.  “Father, please send the angel of death to take one loved one away from all the lost and dying in the world so that we might have an opportunity to...”  God doesn’t have to kill people to awaken people’s hearts to Jesus Christ.  I’ll say it as clearly as I can.  Without the cross and without sin, you do not have Christianity.  You have therapeutic, moralistic deism. 

 

And I know you’re looking at me right now going, “I don’t know.  You don’t have a television show.”  I’ll read you the Bible then.  1 Corinthians 15, starting in verse 1 says this, “Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received, in which you stand, and by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preached to you— unless you believed in vain.  For I delivered to you as of first importance...”  I’m going to stop there because Paul is going to teach repeatedly on certain moral aspects of life.  He has a lot to say about marriage, he has a lot to say about sex, he has a lot to say children, he has a lot to say about how Christians should live.  It’s not that Christianity doesn’t have a moral position, and it’s not that if someone preaches those moral positions, they’re being legalistic.  Our moral positions and the moral positions that God takes in Scripture are not about robbing you of life and getting you to begrudgingly submit to an all powerful God.  God is not glorified by your begrudging submission.  He’s glorified in your joy in obedience.  So the reason He commands what He commands about sex, children, alcohol and marriage is so that you might walk in real, deep joy, that you might walk in how He created the universe to be.  But Paul here is saying, “Those things are still not of first importance.  That’s not the main message.” 

 

Look at what he says is of first importance.  “For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures, and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.  Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive...”  I giggle often at some of the scholarship that I see on National Geographic and the Discovery Channel when it comes to the New Testament.  They leave out massive, massive problems in their theories that this book has really been tampered with.  There’s things like the fact the women first discovered Jesus’ empty tomb.  If you want to change the Bible in the 1st century, you’re changing that bit very quickly because a woman’s testimony wasn’t even admissible in a court of law.  There’s the fact that the early leaders in the church are portrayed as morons.  If you’re Peter and you want to tamper with the Bible, you’re going to pull out a couple of stories about you, aren’t you?  “Remember that time I denied Him?  That doesn’t need to be in there.  Remember that time Jesus called me the devil?  That one can go too.”  And then what are you going to do with the fact that Paul’s writing this in Acts and he’s going, “I know this is going to be hard for some of you to believe, but lest you think I made it up, there are almost 500 people who could call me a liar right now...right now who are still alive.  A couple of them have fallen asleep (died), but ask around.  I’m not floating this.”  Here’s the problem with conspiracy theories as I see it.  It requires dozens if not hundreds of people to keep secrets for decades.  There is nothing in my interactions with humanity that leads me to believe that would be possible, especially when you start crucifying them upside down, boiling them alive and hanging them.

 

Our message is the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ.  It’s where our hope is, and it’s all we’ve got.  So you do a disservice to our faith when you say, “Christians have better marriages.  Christians are better people...”  Oh no, we’re not.  I’ve been around a lot of Christians.  What we are is redeemed by the cross of Jesus Christ, and that kindness leads us to repentance.  Some of us come into this faith really jacked up and sanctification takes a long time.  What we are is redeemed by the blood of the Lamb.  That’s what we are.  So everything that we’ve done here tonight has tried to teach this.  From the songs that we sang...Listen to it again, “The best obedience of my hand dares not appear before Thy throne, but faith can answer Your demands by pleading what the Son has done.  No more my God, I boast no more.”  You’ve seen it in baptism.  Some of you old school Baptists will remember this, “Buried with Christ, raised to walk in the newness of life.”  It’s the celebration of the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ.  Right now we’re transitioning into communion where we’re going to celebrate the shed blood and broken body of Jesus Christ.  This is the good news, this is the gospel, this is what we celebrate, this is what we sing.  Our hope for this life and next is rooted alone in the person and work of Jesus Christ.

 

So we’re going to celebrate communion tonight.  There’s this text in 1 Corinthians 11 that says some people did the Lord’s Supper in an unworthy manner and so God killed them.  And I’ve heard that so horrifically taught over the years that people who have struggled that week have gone, “Oh, I don’t want to take communion.  God might kill me.”  If you’ve struggled this week, but you’re honest before the Lord in that and repentant, why wouldn’t you take communion?  Don’t you see how silly it is to go, “My only hope is in Christ Jesus, and I’ve struggled this week, so let me clean myself up a little bit before I can partake in Christ Jesus?”  That’s silliness, that’s nonsense, that’s going back to a covenant that’s dead.  Of anyone who should love the body and shed blood, it’s those who have struggled this week.

 

Now if you’re not a believer, I can’t tell you how glad I am that you’re here.  I’m maybe even more glad than I am that some of the believers are here.  I’m more glad that you’re here than them.  You won’t find a door closed here to you.  If you want to go overseas with us and help us work among the poorest of poor, if you want to go to Dallas with us and help us work with the poorest of poor, if you want to come to a home group, you will not find a door here closed to you.  But I just want to be real truthful with you.  There is nothing magical in that bread and juice.  We bought it at Kroger.  But by partaking in it, God will not forgive you of your sins, He’s not going to love you more, He’s not going to answer your prayer about a new job or a spouse, He’s not going to help you overcome this or overcome that.  For you who are outside of a commitment to Christ through the cross, faith through grace, it’s stale bread and juice.  But to us, it’s a beautiful symbol of our hope here and for what’s next.  So will you do me a favor and abstain.  You’re not going to be judged here, I promise you that.  How could we judge you?  If our message is, “All we have is Christ and our only salvation is found in Him,” how could we judge you?  But if you’ll do me a favor and let this be our supper tonight, let this be our celebration tonight.

 

Let’s pray, “Father, I thank You for these men and women.  I thank You for the clear testimonies of Your grace and mercy unpacked all weekend long.  I thank You for a homeless man, I thank You for a Buddhist, for multiple drug addicts, for multiple church kids, for multiple Lutherans, Baptists, Catholics and Methodists, for a couple of agnostics, for a couple of atheists, for everyone who got in the water and said, ‘Christ saved me by His grace.’  And so where there are men and women in here who have spent their whole lives in church and never grasped what this thing is, I pray for illumination.  For men and women in here who know all of this well, I pray for celebration.  And for those who do not know you, I pray that You would grant them the gift of belief.  Help us.  It’s for Your beautiful name.  Amen.” 