Lauren and I put the kids to bed on Friday, and I mean it was late.  It was about 8:15, and put the kids to bed and cuddled up on the couch, got a little blanket and cuddled on the couch, and then just hung out a while and watched the news.  And the news, it was 30 minutes long, and 7 minutes of it was the weather, which basically was, “It's going to be warmer than usual, and it might be a little windy.”  And then, 6 or 7 minutes of it was commercial, and then really, there were only two main stories on the news Friday night.  And here's what they were:  Number one was, “Don't worry, because you're safe out there because the malls have been turned into demilitarized zones.  They were interviewing the police helicopter pilots that now over the seasonal holiday will be hovering above the malls to make sure we're alright.  And basically, there have been these stations, machine gun nests, whatever set up in the mall parking lot to make sure we don't get robbed this holiday season.  And then from there, they went right into a plethora of clips from all over the country of people getting beat up in the foyer of Wal-Marts trying to get in.  Which is a mystery in itself, because I didn't know the joint closed.  That is the news Friday night.  And so, I watched all of that, and I just think to myself, “Ahhh, Christmas.  It's here.”  And I'm sitting there and I'm watching this, and I'm just going, “There is something wrong with us.”  I mean something deeply wrong with us that would make us trample another human being for a $400 laptop.  Now $350, all bets are off.  But $400 is kind of that line. 

 

We're going to get ready for Christmas and Christmas Eve.  We're going to start a series tonight that's going to take us through Christmas Eve.  But I don't so much want to talk about the three wise men or the virgin birth or the manger scene.  I think we're going to get to all of those.  Those are all vital pieces to this whole puzzle, but I think it starts way before that because Jesus starts way before that.  And so, in order to do that, we're going to have to talk about some things that I honestly haven't talked about since my first six months here.  I've been here three years, and we haven't talked about these things in a couple of years.  But here's what I want to talk about tonight, and it's going to get us ready to get into the Christmas story in what I'm hoping is some life changing ways.  Now, everyone knows that there's something broken in us.  And if you're in here tonight and you're not a believer in Jesus, you're not religious at all, you can step outside of religion and know that something is desperately wrong with the human soul.  And the best place this can be seen is not in prisons or in some place of ill repute, but the best place to find out how thoroughly broken humanity is is simply at Barnes & Noble.  I mean, you can head to any bookstore, I did not say Lifeway Christian resources, I did not say any kind of Christian bookstore.  I'm saying get yourself a cup of coffee and head to any secular bookstore and the largest section of books in that store is entitled what?  Self help.  So outside of the world of religion everyone is trying to fix what intrinsically is broken in us despite the fact that there's so much disagreement on what is broken inside of us.  Like if you go to a bookstore, you'll see a massive section in self help that's gonna say, “If you just had a better body...if you could just get the physicality of this thing down...if you could cut out the sugars and the bad carbs...if you just worked out a little bit more...that pilates will save...that if we could just get flexible, then life would work.”  And you will find all these kind of books that go, “Well you know, you're stressed.  You need to work out more,” or “Your problem is this...”  And okay, there's a little bit of truth to “maybe you should be good stewards of your body because it's the only one you're going to get.”  But I don't know that salvation is found in pilates or in an adequate bench press.  You move on from there and you're going to find a whole other section of books, probably one of the largest sections of books and this is basically be on finances.  And it's going to say, “Listen, if you could just get out of debt or if you just weren't in want or if you could have all your needs met, then salvation will come.”  But I'm afraid history proves that far too many wealthy people are lost.  And once again, I'm not talking about religiously, I'm talking about locking yourself at the top of a hotel for 20 years.  You move on from there, and you're going to get into what I lovingly call the “Oprah Winfrey books.”  And these are just books on spirituality.  You know, just on becoming a whole person.  “You've got to become a whole person.”  How do you do that?   “We don't know...but become it.”  And it's this whole section of books that talks about wholeness and becoming whole.  So, everybody knows there's something broken.  Everybody knows it.  Step outside, let's forget that I'm a pastor, let's pretend we're sitting in my house, my living room's about this big anyway.  Let's pretend that we're sitting in my living room and we're drinking a cup of coffee and we're talking humanity.  You have to be completely blind to not know that something has gone horribly, horribly wrong.  And then there's all these theories about what it is.  And even the church has thrown their hat in the ring sometimes, I think, on the wrong thing.  I think too often, the church becomes the moral police, and they want to hinge all that's wrong in humanity on moral issues.  They want to go, “You know what the problem is?  Beer and sensuality.  And if we could just get rid of beer and sensuality, the world would work.”  But no.  That's not the problem at all.  In fact, I think those are relatively small symptoms of the real problem. 

 

Now Scripture, the sacred literature of ours, it's going to teach that the problem goes much deeper than some outward action or even some inward thought process.  But rather, the Scriptures are going to teach that you and I, when the fall of man occurred, there was this rift, this tear that occurred in the very fabric of the universe that ruined all of us.  Every one of us was born sinful, basically from birth.  And I know this gets argued a lot.  There's a lot of people who think environment is what corrupts.  My problem with that is that if you paid attention to children at all, I just don't know that you could agree with that.  Like here's the deal, my wife and I sometimes argue about who holds the remote, but I have never bit her to get it.  That's never occurred, and yet there's something that pops off in my daughter's mind that says, “When I don't get what I want, physically harming another human being is the answer.”  And she is not learning that at my house, and I've got strong doubts that Dora's teaching that to her.  I have a huge suspicion that Dora and Boots are not the ones imparting the physical acts of random violence that my daughter flies into when she doesn't get what she wants.  My daughter's not three, and already in her soul, she cries out rebellion.  She's been acting up in school.  She's two and a half.  God help us, she's me.  So we made a deal, “Hey listen, if you behave in school, I'll take you to see 'Chicken Little.'”  Hey, you're desperate when you're a parent.  You just throw out anything and you hope it will work.  So you know, I'm bribing.  I'm going for the bribe.  Don't judge me.  So, we have the talk the whole way to school, “Hey, you behave in school, then we'll go see 'Chicken Little' and I've been wanting to see it anyway, so it's cool.”  The whole way to school, we practice, “If the teacher says, 'Touch your nose', what are you going to do?”  And she touches her nose.  “Okay, if the teacher says, 'Raise your hand...”  okay.”  And we practice the whole way to school.  And I drop her off and pick her up several hours later.  It's just a “Mother's Day Out” program, just a few hours long.  And I pick her up from school and ask her teacher “How'd she do?”  And she was like, “She was horrible, Matt.  She hid under the table and wouldn't come out.  We had to crawl under the table to get her out from under the table.”  So on the way home, she's like, “Hey, are we going to see 'Chicken Little?'”  And I was like, “Well, the deal was if you behaved, we'd go see it.”  And she looked me right in my face and said, “I don't want to see 'Chicken Little.'”  What do you do, man?  I'm a rookie.  I didn't even know what to do because I made a blood covenant with God that I would never go, “Don't make me pull this car over.”  I refuse to be that.  And so, I played my next best card, which was.....nothing, just fear.  That's what the next 18 years holds for me.  And yeah, she's not learning that at our house.  There's something within my daughter that screams “rebellion.”  So, what is it?  Because I don't think it's environment. 

 

Well, the Scriptures are going to tell us in Romans 1 that what's wrong with the universe and the reason that all of us are born broken is tied back to the sin of Adam, that the sin of Adam fractured the universe in three major ways.  And here's the three major ways.  The first way the universe was fractured was that when sin entered the world, all of us began to believe that created things were better than the creator.  We began to put time, energy, devotion and effort into created things rather than time, energy and devotion into the creator of those things.  Thereby loving creation more than the creator.  The second thing Romans 1 is going to say went wrong in the universe was that every one of us began to believe the lie over the truth of God.  Now, the lie that every one of us buys into is that our way is better than God's.  Now, this is horrifically arrogant because God created the universe.  And so, no matter what cards you want to throw down on the table, like “Well, I built businesses...Well, I've done this well...Well, I've done...”  He still always has the trump card.  “I created everything.”  So, despite the fact that He's the creator and sustainer of all things, there is still this thing in us that says, “We know better how life works, how life should be lived, how this thing should function than God.”  And the third fracture in the fabric of the universe, Romans 1:28 says that we have all failed to acknowledge God.  And what this means is that you who you are by the design, the plan and the creativity of God.  So, when you use your skills and your abilities to make much of yourself and do not bestow the honor of whatever that is back to God, you become a blasphemer.  The best place this can be seen is in the world of athletics.  Like have you ever seen Shaquille O'Neil dunk the basketball and be like, “Yeah, you like that?  Huh?”  I mean, you're like, “You're 7 foot 3, and you didn't do that.  You had better dunk the ball.  You don't even have to jump.  You had better slam it in a nasty way.”  But according to Scripture, the glory due the sheer size of Shaquille O'Neil is not his to be gloried in but the Father's that wove him together.  So insert [whoever you are, whatever you do].  No one, in their mother's womb, made any kind of request for talents and abilities.  None of you rapped on the wall in there and said, “Yeah, I'd like to be fast, smart, good looking.”  You didn't.  You were woven together by the creator of all things.  So, the glory due whatever you're good at isn't yours.  And this is what's gone wrong.  And it's permeated mankind, and it causes, in the darkest of hours, us to run up the back of other people. 

 

Alright, now let me read you something.  John 1, starting in verse 1.  So, this fracture occurred in the universe and, for the sake of the text, from now on when I mention or refer to this fracture in the universe that we just spilled out in Romans 1, I'm just going to call it “the darkness” because that's what John 1 is going to call it.  We'll just call it “the darkness” from here on out.  So, this sinful nature that's in all of us, we're born broken, born wicked, we're going to call it “the darkness.”  So, John 1, starting in verse 1 says this, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.  In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men.  The Light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.”  Now, if you have a study Bible or any kind of Bible with notes on it, you're going to see a note by that word “comprehend.”  And if you look in the margins of your Scriptures, you'll see that this also can be the word “overpower” or “overcome.”  So in essence, what just happened is that the Word, who is in the beginning with God, and who was God created all things, came among men, brought life to men, and in so doing, overcame the darkness, overpowered the darkness, wove back together the tear in the  fabric of the universe.  But how can we be so sure?  Because the mall has machine gun nests at it, kind of.  And people got beat up in the foyer of Wall-Marts all over the country to celebrate Christmas.  And you know what?  We had to go to the hospital this week because a lady in our church gave birth to a baby that couldn't move it's arms and legs.  And a good friend of Dustin Sandler, who plays the drums for us, his wife's car turned over into a creek and three of their children were killed late last night.  And I know some of you in this room, and some of you are in some really dark places right now, whether that be in terms of addiction or something else.  Listen, I know what we're doing here.  I know some of you grew up in church your whole life, and you're sitting there right now going, “I know what you're about to say, and it has never worked for me.  I know what you're about to say.  I know what we're about to get into.  I know Jesus, I know the songs.  I get it, but it doesn't work for me.”  And I know some of you have been trying with all your might to try to make this Jesus thing work, and you just feel like you're failing.  And it feels like and it looks like at times that the darkness is bigger and stronger than ever.  Doesn't it?  I mean, we can pretend in here.  I mean, we can come in here, and I can talk about the fact we never struggle and pain never befalls those who love God.  I mean, I'd have to outright lie to you. 

 

So how do we know?  Or let's say it like this.  How can we be confident?  How can we be confident that Jesus truly has overcome the darkness?  John 1 told us.  Let's read it again.  “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.”  Three weeks ago, I left our house at 6AM in the morning and went to a series of meetings, went all day, got home about 8:50 at night, walked in and my wife was like, “Baby, I think I'm having contractions, consistent contractions.”  And I was like, “We're a month early.  That can't be.”  So we sat down and timed them, and then we got in the car and drove in a hurry to the hospital.  And we get to the hospital, and several hours later, here comes my son.  And he's a beautiful baby, still can't catch worth nothing, but he's doing alright.  He comes into being, and Reid's beginning was in Lauren's womb.  One cell became two cells, two cells became four cells, four-eight, eight-sixteen, sixteen-thirty two...  And so, you've got Reid's beginning in my wife's womb.  Now, make sure you catch this.  Reid has not eternally been running around heaven.  There was no Reid before the cells began to grow in my wife's stomach.  And the Bible says that Reid's birth was not a biological process that God began and then abandoned to run on it's own, but that rather God is intimately in my wife's womb, creating, weaving, stitching together both his physical makeup as well as his unseen substance, his soul.  So God creates not only my son's physicality but also creates his soul.  Reid's beginning was in Lauren's womb.  And here's where Jesus is eternally different from us.  Because Jesus' birth in Bethlehem is nowhere near His beginning.  “In the beginning was the Word.”  The beginning of what?  Everything.  “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.”  Let me tell you why we have such confidence and hope that Jesus has overcome the darkness.  Jesus is not some philosopher/teacher.  He is not a moral ethicist.  He is God in the flesh.  This is what separates what we believe from every other religion on Earth.  We do not follow the ways of a philosopher, prophet, teacher, we follow God in the flesh.  That's the difference.  Bethlehem was not the beginning of Christ.  In fact, He's a bajillion days old the day He's born.  It's not His beginning.  In fact, in the beginning, not only is He with God and is God, but He is the active action of the creation of God.  You're going to find nine times in Genesis this phrase, “God said...God said...God said....”  Now, in a book called “The Supreme Harmony of All Things,” which is just kind of Jonathan Edwards talking about the Trinity, he says that Jesus is the active agent of the will of God.  So, God is saying, “Let there be light,” and Jesus then creates light.  And God says, “Let there be an expanse,” and Jesus creates the expanse.  We are confident in Christ's victory over the darkness because Jesus is not some moral man, some philosopher/teacher but God in the flesh, creator of all things.  And as creator of all things, He has dominion over all things.  He has power over all things.  Like Colossians 1:16 says that all things were created by Him, whether things in the heavens or on the Earth, whether visible or invisible.  I just personally love the fact that there's invisible stuff out there.  Visible and invisible, all things were created by Him and for Him.  So as the creator of all things, Christ has dominion over all things, power over all things.  And He flexes this muscle all the time, specifically when it comes to nature.  Like, you're going to find over and over again, Christ either curses something or tell something natural to stop and it just stops.  In one of my favorite stories in Scripture, Jesus is asleep in the boat in a horrible storm, a storm so horrible that men who live on the sea are terrified that they're about to die.  They come and wake Him up and say, “Jesus, we're about to die.”  He stands up and goes, “Quit it.”  And the wind and the rain and the seas immediately go calm, and He goes back and lays down.  And then, the disciples go to the far end of the boat and are like, “That was freaky!”  Now, that is my own version of what happened, but the story does read similar.  So, you've got Christ over and over again, flexing His dominion, His power over all that is, because He is the creator. 

 

Let me show you another place where this happens.  Flip over to Matthew 8 with me.  In terms of the power of Christ, this is pretty telling.  Starting in verse 28, “And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold, they cried out, "What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?"” Now, you want to talk dominion and power of Christ?  Jesus is walking down the road, these two demon possessed men run at Him to attack Him, see who it is, and all the demons have to say is, “You ain't here to kill us early are you?”  I mean, there's no “Harry Potter” wands, brooms, good vs. evil, “let's do this” wizard's duel battle thing.  It's just them going, “Please don't kill us.”  In fact, we have no mention in Scripture of anything of evil origin ever being able to debate Him.  In fact over and over again, he says “Be gone and shut up.  Don't even say anything on your way out.”  In fact, even what is required of us is not required of Him.  What I mean by that is the disciples come to Jesus, and they go, “Hey, we're trying to cast out this demon and it's not going well.  Look at Peter's eye.”  That was another paraphrase.  And so, Jesus walk up to this man and goes, “Demon, be gone and be quiet about it.”  And then, He comes back and goes, “Oh yeah, those don't come out except by prayer and fasting.”  But Jesus didn't pray and fast, he just said, “Get out of here and be quiet about it” and voom, they're gone.  So, for all the dualism that  gets taught about this cataclysmic battle of good vs. evil, it's just Jesus really telling them what to do.  “Get out of here...be quiet...stop that...you're dead...”  Don't mishear me, because I think there is a war for your soul and for your mind and for your heart.  I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about Christ and His dominion over all things.  The fact that He walks up to a fig tree and there's no figs on it, so He curses it up and it shrivels up and dies.  So, why are we so confident that Jesus has overcome the darkness?  Because He's God.  Because we're not following teaching, we're following God, the God, the creator of all things.  And by His creation of all things, He has power over all things. 

 

Now, back to John 1.  Let's keep reading, “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.  In Him was life,...”  In the teachings of Jesus, Jesus is going to create a difference, if you will, between existing and being alive.  He is going to teach like they're separate things.  Here's the example.  In John 10:10, He says, “I have come so that you might have life.”  But He's saying that to people who are functioning.  They're hearing, they're thinking, they're breathing, they're married, they have kids, they have homes, they have jobs.  So He, in his teaching, is creating a difference between existence and life.  The primary purpose, specifically if you're not a believer here tonight in th things I'm talking about please hear me, the primary purpose of God in the universe is not judgment.  But rather, it's the display of His glory, mercy, perfection, beauties and pleasures in rescuing men and women from the darkness, out of existence and into life.  I will never stand up here and tell you that if you don't go to church and don't know Jesus, you can't have a good marriage.  Because I don't believe that.  I've live life long enough to know that there are people who do not know Jesus, and they have good marriages.  And I know some of you are in here like, “Whoa, you're on thin ground, boy.  You had better take that back.  No, they can't.  They're miserable and wretched without Christ.”  I mean, they can't see that.  I'm not going to tell you that outside of Jesus, you can't enjoy life.  I think you can enjoy life and not know anything about Jesus.  I know too many people who have good marriages right now, husbands who love their wives, who are faithful to their wives, who romance their wives but know nothing of Christ.  Here's what I will tell you.  Because Christ is God and the creator of all things, outside of a relationship with Him, you will never experience the fullness of what anything was created to be.  Can you have a good marriage outside of Jesus?  Absolutely.  Will you ever attain the Hebrew word “dode,” which means a mingling of souls?  Absolutely not.  Can you have good sex outside of Jesus?  I'm sure.  Will it ever be the soul filling, respect growing harmony of two souls?  No, because you can come together physically and emotionally but never spiritually outside of Him.  And this goes for everything.  Why?  How many of you grew up in church?  Have you ever heard that there's a hole in the heart of man that only Jesus can fill?  I've heard some of you quote it like Scripture.  Like, “That's what the Bible says, there's a hole in there.”  There is actually a verse that's something like that.  I think that's where we get that.  But in Ecclesiastes 3:11, it says that God has placed eternity into the hearts of men so that we might seek him.  And by God placing eternity into you and me, it means that nothing that is temporal can ever fill the gap of eternity.  It's why we're insatiable.  I mean, have you picked up on that yet?  You are insatiable.  Whether it's stuff, whether it's relationships, it doesn't matter what it is, we are insatiable in nature because there is in us, the chasm of eternity that only what is eternal can fill.  It's why you can never know the fullness of all things outside of the one who created those things.  He came to bring life, not judgment.  Christ isn't looking at you tonight and going, “Oh, if you would just fix this, this and this...Oh, I'm going to have to kill you now.”  But rather, He says, “Ah man, there's such greater joy to walk in, such deeper pools to swim in.  I don't know of anyone who said it better than C.S. Lewis who said we're like little kids playing in the mud who have no idea what is mean by a holiday at the sea.  He came to bring life because existence is all there is in the darkness.

 

Now, look at this next line.  “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.  He was in the beginning with God.  All things came into being through Him, and apart from Him nothing came into being that has come into being.”  So, we have confidence that Jesus has overcome the darkness because He is God, because He is creator of all things and because He has not come to judge and destroy but rather to come and give life and give life to the full.  Now, look at this next part, and we'll talk kingdom of God like we did last week.  “In Him was life, and the life was the Light of men.”  Now, we talked last week about this phrase that's found over and over again, this phrase, “kingdom of God.”  And we said that the kingdom of God was a person, a power and a people.  In that sermon, we said that the power of Jesus, when it is taught by Jesus, is always taught within the frame, within the parameters of process.  So, Jesus would say it like this, “The power of the kingdom of God is like a mustard seed.  It was thrown into the ground, watered and taken care of.  It grew into a plant, then grew into a tree.  And when it was a tree, it was so large, larger than all the other plants of the garden that birds of the field perched on that tree.”  So, Jesus is describing this transforming healing, whole making thing that occurs in you and me as a process, not as this instantaneous moment, but a moment that leads to a process.  He's talking about very similar things here when he says, “The life that I've come to bring is the Light of men.”  Flip over to John 3, let me show you this.  Starting in verse 1, “Now there was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews; this man came to Jesus by night and said to Him, "Rabbi, we know that You have come from God as a teacher; for no one can do these signs that You do unless God is with him."  Jesus answered and said to him...”  Now, keep in mind that the kingdom of God is that process by which we are made whole, we are healed.  The power of the kingdom of God is what we call “discipleship.”  So, listen to this, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again...”  Let's stop there.  We're talking about life again.  Jesus came to bring life.  Jesus is saying, “Unless one is born again.  So you've had the physical birth, now get out of existence and get into life.”  This is the acknowledgment that “Jesus, I need you.  You are my Lord.  Come reign in my life.”  This is that moment.  “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again he cannot see the kingdom of God.”  He can't see it.  Unless one be made alive in Christ, the darkness will rule him.  Unless one is born again into the life of Christ, the darkness will rule him.  But if he is made alive by Jesus' life, then Jesus will illuminate the kingdom of God to him and he'll become the well watered tree, the oak of righteousness, the planting of the Lord for the display of His splendor.

 

So, we're full speed ahead.  All over the country, husbands were begrudgingly on ladders this weekend.  Christmas wreaths are everywhere.  There's more red ribbon being used now than any other time in the year.  Lights are going up everywhere.  Manger scenes are being placed in yards with Santa bowing down to it.  They're going to begin to play Christmas carols on the radio.  I think they have.  I think they started in August, butt they're playing.  Already, small group Christmas parties are getting thrown onto the books.  I know even in our house, we're getting pretty excited this year because this is the first year my daughter gets it.  Like the first year, you're so excited, it's anticlimactic.  You know, the first year, she just ate the paper and fell asleep...or blacked out.  I don't know which one happened, but she ate paper and it was over.  And then the second year, she opened up one of the two billion presents she got and fell asleep on the floor.  But this year, she full on gets American Christmas.  Every commercial, “Can I get one of those?  Can I get one of those?  Can I get one of those?”  Yeah.  So, we're pretty excited in our house.  Is there another time of the year that is filled with more nostalgia than this time?  Where everybody thinks back about how great it was or wasn't.  But I don't want to be nostalgic.  I want to be in awe.  I want to be in awe that He who knew no birth nor death, He who was never created became creation.  I want to be in awe that the one who is infinitely powerful limits His own power and becomes flesh and blood.  I want to be in awe that God came in the flesh, bringing life so the darkness that has chewed up and spit out my family for 200 years has been conquered.  Not because of anything I do, but because of what He did.  I want to be in awe that we celebrate His first coming, and there's another one on it's way.  I want to figure out how to protect my daughter from all the consumerism that has become attached to the majesty of our sweet king.  And I don't pretend I know how to do those.  I can't create awe even in my own heart, so I meditate and pray.  Like this afternoon, I was thinking of the fact that Jesus who is the creator and sustainer of all things was spit upon by the very glands, muscles and nervous systems that He held together and enabled to do so.  I want to be in awe of that stuff.  So it begins.

 

Let's pray, “Father, I pray that as we enter into communion tonight, this thing that You've given us so that we would remember, that as we pick up a piece of bread and we dip it into some wine that we might remember that we celebrate not the death of some man but God in the flesh, that we celebrate the one who knew no death became and tasted death.  So that the plague of the universe, the great pandemic could be healed, restored.  I thank You that I am not a slave to the 200 years of Chandler men before me.  I thank You that I am not doomed to obey the subtle calls of unrighteousness that still whisper in my heart, but that You have provided the process of restoration, healing, empowerment, wholeness, life.  And I pray that I would be faithful to walk it and that You'd be faithful to help us walk it.  And I pray that we not get all swept up in Christmas pageants and lights and gift buying and all those things.  And I don't think all those things are intrinsically evil, Father, but I pray that that wouldn't be the extent of it for us.  I pray for fathers in here, that there would be a great deal of thought, prayer, and discussion for what this season looks like in their home, what we teach the next generation as You have commanded us to commend Your works to the next generation.  And this thing goes well beyond eggnog and stockings.  And so, would You give us wisdom on how to do this and what that looks like.  I thank You for life, not existence but deep, rich life.  And I pray that we would seek it with all the grace that You'll give us.  Thank You for the promise of wholeness.  We hold fast for the process in the hope that You who began this thing will be faithful to complete it.  We love You.  Help us love You more.  It's for Your beautiful name I pray.  Amen.” 